NOTICES AND INFORMATION

IBM Decision Intelligence Client Managed Software 26.0.0

The IBM license agreement and any applicable information on the web
download page for IBM products refers Licensee to this file for details
concerning notices applicable to code included in the products listed
above ("the Program").

Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of any other agreement Licensee
may have with IBM or any of its related or affiliated entities
(collectively "IBM"), the third party code identified below is subject
to the terms and conditions of the IBM license agreement for the Program
and not the license terms that may be contained in the notices below.
The notices are provided for informational purposes.

Please note: This Notices file may identify information that is not used
by, or that was not shipped with, the Program as Licensee installed it.

IMPORTANT: IBM does not represent or warrant that the information in this
NOTICES file is accurate. Third party websites are independent of IBM and
IBM does not represent or warrant that the information on any third party
website referenced in this NOTICES file is accurate. IBM disclaims any
and all liability for errors and omissions or for any damages accruing
from the use of this NOTICES file or its contents, including without
limitation URLs or references to any third party websites.


TABLE OF CONTENTS

THIS NOTICE FILE CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING SECTIONS:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

0BSD
Apache-2.0
BSD-2-Clause
BSD-3-Clause
Bouncy Castle License
CDDL-1.0
CDDL-1.1
CPL-1.0
EDL-1.0
EPL-1.0
EPL-2.0
ICU
JDOM
LGPL-3.0
MIT
MIT-0
MPL-1.1
MPL-2.0
Python-2.0
UPL-1.0

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

0BSD CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the 0BSD license:

org.tukaani:xz

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any purpose with or 
without fee is hereby granted.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO 
THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT 
SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR 
ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF 
CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE 
OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.


END OF 0BSD CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
APACHE-2.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Apache-2.0 license:

annotations
annotations-2.0.21.jar
annotations-4.1.1.4.jar
apache-client-2.42.16.jar
arns
arns-2.42.16.jar
auth
aws-core
aws-json-protocol
aws-query-protocol
aws-xml-protocol
aws-xml-protocol-2.42.16.jar
biz.aQute.bnd:biz.aQute.bnd.annotation
bom-internal
bson-5.6.3.jar
bson-5.6.4.jar
bson-record-codec-5.6.3.jar
bson-record-codec-5.6.4.jar
cglib:cglib
checksums
checksums-spi
com.aayushatharva.brotli4j:brotli4j
com.aayushatharva.brotli4j:native-linux-x86_64
com.aayushatharva.brotli4j:service
com.amazonaws:jmespath-java
com.codahale.metrics:metrics-core
com.codahale.metrics:metrics-healthchecks
com.cronutils:cron-utils
com.fasterxml.jackson.core.jackson-annotations-2.19.2.jar
com.fasterxml.jackson.core.jackson-core-2.19.2.jar
com.fasterxml.jackson.core.jackson-databind-2.19.2.jar
com.fasterxml.jackson.datatype.jackson-datatype-jsr310-2.19.2.jar
com.fasterxml.jackson.jakarta.rs:jackson-jakarta-rs-base
com.fasterxml.jackson.jakarta.rs:jackson-jakarta-rs-json-provider
com.fasterxml.jackson.module:jackson-module-parameter-names
com.github.java-json-tools:btf
com.github.java-json-tools:jackson-coreutils
com.github.java-json-tools:json-patch
com.github.java-json-tools:msg-simple
com.google.api.grpc:proto-google-common-protos
com.google.code.findbugs:jsr305
com.google.errorprone.error_prone_annotations-2.40.0.jar
com.google.guava:failureaccess
com.google.guava:guava
com.google.guava:listenablefuture
com.google.inject:guice
com.google.protobuf.protobuf-java-4.33.1.jar
com.googlecode.javaewah:JavaEWAH
com.googlecode.json-simple:json-simple
com.ibm.async:asyncutil
com.opencsv:opencsv
com.typesafe.config-1.4.5.jar
com.typesafe:config
com.zaxxer:SparseBitSet
commons-cli:commons-cli
commons-codec
commons-collections:commons-collections
commons-csv
commons-fileupload:commons-fileupload
compiler
config
config-1.4.5.jar
config-1.4.6.jar
crt-core
dev.langchain4j:langchain4j-core
ehcache-107
ehcache-3.12.0-jakarta.jar
ehcache-api
ehcache-core
ehcache-impl
ehcache-xml
ehcache-xml-spi
endpoints-spi
error_prone_annotations
error_prone_annotations-2.49.0.jar
github.com/z0ne-dev/mgx
go.yaml.in/yaml/v2
grpc-api-1.75.0.jar
grpc-api-1.80.0.jar
grpc-context-1.75.0.jar
grpc-context-1.80.0.jar
grpc-core-1.75.0.jar
grpc-core-1.80.0.jar
grpc-grpclb-1.75.0.jar
grpc-netty-1.75.0.jar
grpc-netty-1.80.0.jar
grpc-protobuf-1.75.0.jar
grpc-protobuf-1.80.0.jar
grpc-protobuf-lite-1.75.0.jar
grpc-protobuf-lite-1.80.0.jar
grpc-stub-1.75.0.jar
grpc-stub-1.80.0.jar
grpc-util-1.75.0.jar
grpc-util-1.80.0.jar
guava-33.5.0-jre.jar
http-auth
http-auth-aws
http-auth-aws-eventstream
http-auth-spi
http-client-spi
identity-spi
importlib_metadata
io.etcd:jetcd-common
io.etcd:jetcd-core
io.etcd:jetcd-grpc
io.gsonfire:gson-fire
io.jaegertracing:jaeger-core
io.micrometer:micrometer-registry-prometheus-simpleclient
io.mongock:mongock-api
io.mongock:mongock-core-bom
io.mongock:mongock-driver-api
io.mongock:mongock-driver-core
io.mongock:mongock-driver-mongodb-bom
io.mongock:mongock-runner-core
io.mongock:mongock-standalone
io.mongock:mongock-standalone-base
io.mongock:mongock-utils
io.mongock:mongodb-sync-v4-driver
io.netty:netty-tcnative-boringssl-static
io.netty:netty-tcnative-classes
io.netty:netty-transport-classes-epoll
io.opentelemetry.instrumentation:opentelemetry-instrumentation-api
io.opentelemetry.semconv:opentelemetry-semconv
io.opentelemetry:opentelemetry-api
io.opentelemetry:opentelemetry-api-incubator
io.opentelemetry:opentelemetry-context
io.opentracing:opentracing-noop
io.opentracing:opentracing-util
io.prometheus:simpleclient
io.prometheus:simpleclient_tracer_otel
io.prometheus:simpleclient_tracer_otel_agent
io.quarkiverse.jgit:quarkus-jgit
io.quarkiverse.jsch:quarkus-jsch
io.quarkiverse.loggingjson:quarkus-logging-json
io.quarkus.arc:arc
io.quarkus.resteasy.reactive:resteasy-reactive
io.quarkus.resteasy.reactive:resteasy-reactive-common
io.quarkus.resteasy.reactive:resteasy-reactive-common-types
io.quarkus.resteasy.reactive:resteasy-reactive-jsonb
io.quarkus.resteasy.reactive:resteasy-reactive-vertx
io.quarkus.security:quarkus-security
io.quarkus.vertx.utils:quarkus-vertx-utils
io.quarkus:quarkus-arc
io.quarkus:quarkus-bootstrap-bom
io.quarkus:quarkus-bootstrap-bom-test
io.quarkus:quarkus-bootstrap-runner
io.quarkus:quarkus-classloader-commons
io.quarkus:quarkus-core
io.quarkus:quarkus-credentials
io.quarkus:quarkus-development-mode-spi
io.quarkus:quarkus-elytron-security
io.quarkus:quarkus-elytron-security-common
io.quarkus:quarkus-elytron-security-properties-file
io.quarkus:quarkus-fs-util
io.quarkus:quarkus-ide-launcher
io.quarkus:quarkus-jackson
io.quarkus:quarkus-jsonb
io.quarkus:quarkus-jsonp
io.quarkus:quarkus-micrometer
io.quarkus:quarkus-micrometer-registry-prometheus
io.quarkus:quarkus-mutiny
io.quarkus:quarkus-netty
io.quarkus:quarkus-oidc
io.quarkus:quarkus-oidc-common
io.quarkus:quarkus-rest
io.quarkus:quarkus-rest-common
io.quarkus:quarkus-rest-jsonb
io.quarkus:quarkus-rest-jsonb-common
io.quarkus:quarkus-resteasy
io.quarkus:quarkus-resteasy-common
io.quarkus:quarkus-resteasy-jackson
io.quarkus:quarkus-resteasy-server-common
io.quarkus:quarkus-scheduler
io.quarkus:quarkus-scheduler-api
io.quarkus:quarkus-scheduler-common
io.quarkus:quarkus-scheduler-kotlin
io.quarkus:quarkus-scheduler-spi
io.quarkus:quarkus-security
io.quarkus:quarkus-security-runtime-spi
io.quarkus:quarkus-smallrye-context-propagation
io.quarkus:quarkus-smallrye-jwt-build
io.quarkus:quarkus-tls-registry
io.quarkus:quarkus-vertx
io.quarkus:quarkus-vertx-http
io.quarkus:quarkus-vertx-latebound-mdc-provider
io.quarkus:quarkus-virtual-threads
io.rest-assured:rest-assured
io.smallrye.certs:smallrye-private-key-pem-parser
io.smallrye.common:smallrye-common-annotation
io.smallrye.common:smallrye-common-bom
io.smallrye.common:smallrye-common-classloader
io.smallrye.common:smallrye-common-constraint
io.smallrye.common:smallrye-common-cpu
io.smallrye.common:smallrye-common-expression
io.smallrye.common:smallrye-common-function
io.smallrye.common:smallrye-common-io
io.smallrye.common:smallrye-common-net
io.smallrye.common:smallrye-common-os
io.smallrye.common:smallrye-common-ref
io.smallrye.common:smallrye-common-vertx-context
io.smallrye.config:smallrye-config
io.smallrye.config:smallrye-config-common
io.smallrye.config:smallrye-config-core
io.smallrye.reactive:mutiny
io.smallrye.reactive:mutiny-smallrye-context-propagation
io.smallrye.reactive:mutiny-test-utils
io.smallrye.reactive:mutiny-zero-flow-adapters
io.smallrye.reactive:smallrye-mutiny-vertx-auth-common
io.smallrye.reactive:smallrye-mutiny-vertx-bridge-common
io.smallrye.reactive:smallrye-mutiny-vertx-core
io.smallrye.reactive:smallrye-mutiny-vertx-runtime
io.smallrye.reactive:smallrye-mutiny-vertx-uri-template
io.smallrye.reactive:smallrye-mutiny-vertx-web
io.smallrye.reactive:smallrye-mutiny-vertx-web-client
io.smallrye.reactive:smallrye-mutiny-vertx-web-common
io.smallrye.reactive:vertx-mutiny-generator
io.smallrye.testing:smallrye-testing-utilities
io.smallrye:smallrye-context-propagation
io.smallrye:smallrye-context-propagation-api
io.smallrye:smallrye-context-propagation-storage
io.smallrye:smallrye-fault-tolerance-core
io.smallrye:smallrye-fault-tolerance-vertx
io.smallrye:smallrye-jwt
io.smallrye:smallrye-jwt-build
io.smallrye:smallrye-jwt-common
io.spray:spray-json_3
io.swagger.core.v3:swagger-annotations
io.swagger.core.v3:swagger-annotations-jakarta
io.swagger.core.v3:swagger-core
io.swagger.core.v3:swagger-core-jakarta
io.swagger.core.v3:swagger-integration-jakarta
io.swagger.core.v3:swagger-models
io.swagger.swagger-annotations-1.6.16.jar
io.swagger:swagger-annotations
io.vertx:vertx-auth-common
io.vertx:vertx-bridge-common
io.vertx:vertx-codegen
io.vertx:vertx-dependencies
io.vertx:vertx-uri-template
io.vertx:vertx-web
io.vertx:vertx-web-client
io.vertx:vertx-web-common
itu
jackson-bom
jackson-core
jackson-databind
jackson-databind-nullable
jackson-databind-nullable-0.2.10.jar
jackson-dataformat-yaml
jackson-dataformat-yaml-2.19.2.jar
jackson-datatype-jdk8
jackson-datatype-jsr310
jackson-jakarta-rs-base
jackson-jakarta-rs-base-2.19.2.jar
jackson-jakarta-rs-base-2.21.1.jar
jackson-jakarta-rs-json-provider
jackson-jakarta-rs-json-provider-2.19.2.jar
jackson-jakarta-rs-json-provider-2.21.1.jar
jackson-jaxrs-base
jackson-jaxrs-json-provider
jackson-module-jakarta-xmlbind-annotations
jackson-module-jakarta-xmlbind-annotations-2.19.2.jar
jackson-module-jakarta-xmlbind-annotations-2.21.1.jar
jackson-module-jaxb-annotations
jackson-module-parameter-names
jakarta.enterprise:jakarta.enterprise.cdi-api
jakarta.enterprise:jakarta.enterprise.lang-model
jakarta.inject-api-2.0.1.jar
jakarta.inject:jakarta.inject-api
jakarta.validation-api-3.1.0.jar
jakarta.validation:jakarta.validation-api
javax.activation:javax.activation-api
javax.inject:javax.inject
jdom2
jersey-media-json-jackson-4.0.2.jar
jetcd-api-0.8.6.jar
jetcd-common-0.8.6.jar
jetcd-core-0.8.6.jar
jetcd-grpc-0.8.6.jar
jnidispatch
joda-time
joda-time-2.14.1.jar
json-schema-validator
json-utils
json4j-1.0.0.2.jar
jsonschema-generator
k8s.io/api
k8s.io/apimachinery
k8s.io/client-go
k8s.io/kube-openapi
k8s.io/utils
kafka-clients-4.2.0.jar
langchain4j-core
liblz4-java.dll
liquibase-core
log4j-to-slf4j
lz4-java
lz4-java-1.11.0.jar
maven-artifact
metrics-spi
micrometer-commons-1.10.4.jar
micrometer-commons-1.16.1.jar
micrometer-core
micrometer-core-1.10.4.jar
micrometer-core-1.16.1.jar
micrometer-observation-1.10.4.jar
micrometer-observation-1.16.1.jar
mongodb-driver-core-5.6.3.jar
mongodb-driver-core-5.6.4.jar
mongodb-driver-sync
mongodb-driver-sync-5.6.3.jar
mongodb-driver-sync-5.6.4.jar
net.bytebuddy:byte-buddy
net.bytebuddy:byte-buddy-agent
net.java.dev.jna:jna-platform
netty-buffer
netty-buffer-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-buffer-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-codec-base
netty-codec-base-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-codec-base-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-codec-compression
netty-codec-compression-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-codec-compression-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-codec-dns
netty-codec-dns-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-codec-dns-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-codec-http
netty-codec-http-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-codec-http-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-codec-http2
netty-codec-http2-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-codec-http2-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-codec-socks
netty-codec-socks-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-codec-socks-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-common
netty-common-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-common-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-handler
netty-handler-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-handler-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-handler-proxy
netty-handler-proxy-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-handler-proxy-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-resolver
netty-resolver-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-resolver-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-resolver-dns
netty-resolver-dns-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-resolver-dns-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-tcnative-boringssl-static-2.0.72.Final-linux-aarch_64.jar
netty-tcnative-boringssl-static-2.0.72.Final-linux-x86_64.jar
netty-tcnative-boringssl-static-2.0.72.Final-osx-aarch_64.jar
netty-tcnative-boringssl-static-2.0.72.Final-osx-x86_64.jar
netty-tcnative-boringssl-static-2.0.72.Final-windows-x86_64.jar
netty-transport
netty-transport-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-transport-4.2.4.Final.jar
netty-transport-native-unix-common
netty-transport-native-unix-common-4.2.12.Final.jar
netty-transport-native-unix-common-4.2.4.Final.jar
org.apache.aries.jndi:org.apache.aries.jndi.api
org.apache.bcel:bcel
org.apache.commons:commons-csv
org.apache.geronimo.specs:geronimo-osgi-registry
org.apache.httpcomponents:httpasyncclient
org.apache.james:apache-mime4j-core
org.apache.logging.log4j:log4j-bom
org.apache.maven.plugins:maven-site-plugin
org.apache.maven:maven-artifact
org.apache.tomcat.tomcat-jdbc-11.0.15.jar
org.apache.tomcat.tomcat-juli-11.0.15.jar
org.atteo:evo-inflector
org.bitbucket.b_c:jose4j
org.codehaus.janino:commons-compiler
org.codehaus.janino:janino
org.codehaus.plexus:plexus-utils
org.eclipse.jgit:org.eclipse.jgit
org.eclipse.microprofile.context-propagation:microprofile-context-propagation-api
org.eclipse.microprofile.jwt:microprofile-jwt-auth-api
org.ehcache.modules:ehcache-107
org.ehcache.modules:ehcache-api
org.ehcache.modules:ehcache-core
org.ehcache.modules:ehcache-impl
org.ehcache.modules:ehcache-xml
org.ehcache.modules:ehcache-xml-spi
org.ehcache:sizeof
org.javassist:javassist
org.jboss.classfilewriter:jboss-classfilewriter
org.jboss.logging:commons-logging-jboss-logging
org.jboss.logging:jboss-logging
org.jboss.logging:jboss-logging-annotations
org.jboss.modules:jboss-modules
org.jboss.resteasy.microprofile:microprofile-config
org.jboss.resteasy.microprofile:project-bom
org.jboss.resteasy:resteasy-cdi
org.jboss.resteasy:resteasy-core-spi
org.jboss.slf4j:slf4j-jboss-logmanager
org.jboss.threads:jboss-threads
org.jboss.weld.se:weld-se-core
org.jboss.weld:weld-osgi-bundle
org.jboss:jandex
org.jctools:jctools-core
org.jetbrains.annotations-26.0.2.jar
org.liquibase:liquibase-core
org.mongodb.bson-5.6.1.jar
org.mongodb.bson-record-codec-5.6.1.jar
org.mongodb.mongodb-driver-core-5.6.1.jar
org.mongodb.mongodb-driver-sync-5.6.1.jar
org.mongodb:mongodb-driver-core
org.mongodb:mongodb-driver-sync
org.openapitools:jackson-databind-nullable
org.osgi.org.osgi.core-6.0.0.jar
org.osgi:org.osgi.annotation.versioning
org.osgi:org.osgi.core
org.osgi:org.osgi.namespace.service
org.osgi:org.osgi.service.cdi
org.osgi:org.osgi.service.cm
org.osgi:org.osgi.service.component
org.osgi:org.osgi.service.component.annotations
org.osgi:org.osgi.service.coordinator
org.osgi:org.osgi.service.event
org.osgi:org.osgi.service.log
org.osgi:org.osgi.service.metatype
org.osgi:org.osgi.service.metatype.annotations
org.osgi:org.osgi.service.prefs
org.osgi:osgi.core
org.reflections:reflections
org.scala-lang:scala-library
org.scala-lang:scala3-library_3
org.sonatype.plexus:plexus-cipher
org.sonatype.plexus:plexus-sec-dispatcher
org.terracotta:fast-restartable-store
org.terracotta:offheap-store
org.terracotta:statistics
org.terracotta:terracotta-utilities-tools
org.testng:testng
org.wildfly.common:wildfly-common
org.wildfly.security:wildfly-elytron-realm
org.yaml:snakeyaml
osgi.annotation
packaging
plexus-utils
pmml4s_3-1.5.8.jar
poi-5.5.1.jar
poi-ooxml-5.5.1.jar
poi-ooxml-lite-5.5.1.jar
profiles
proto-google-common-protos
proto-google-common-protos-2.63.2.jar
protocol-core
python-dateutil
quarkus-jackson
quarkus-logging-json
quarkus-resteasy
quarkus-resteasy-common
quarkus-resteasy-jackson
quarkus-resteasy-server-common
quarkus-run.jar
reactor-core
reactor-core-3.7.0.jar
regions
resources-ant.jar
resteasy-cdi
resteasy-core
resteasy-core-spi
resteasy-jackson2-provider
retries
retries-spi
s3
s3-2.42.16.jar
sagemaker
sagemakerruntime
scala-library-3.8.1.jar
scala-library-3.8.2.jar
scala3-library_3-3.8.2.jar
scala3-library_3-3.8.3.jar
sdk-core
sigs.k8s.io/json
software.amazon.awssdk:annotations
software.amazon.awssdk:apache-client
software.amazon.awssdk:auth
software.amazon.awssdk:aws-core
software.amazon.awssdk:aws-json-protocol
software.amazon.awssdk:aws-query-protocol
software.amazon.awssdk:bom-internal
software.amazon.awssdk:checksums
software.amazon.awssdk:checksums-spi
software.amazon.awssdk:codecommit
software.amazon.awssdk:endpoints-spi
software.amazon.awssdk:http-auth
software.amazon.awssdk:http-auth-aws
software.amazon.awssdk:http-auth-aws-eventstream
software.amazon.awssdk:http-auth-spi
software.amazon.awssdk:http-client-spi
software.amazon.awssdk:identity-spi
software.amazon.awssdk:json-utils
software.amazon.awssdk:metrics-spi
software.amazon.awssdk:netty-nio-client
software.amazon.awssdk:profiles
software.amazon.awssdk:protocol-core
software.amazon.awssdk:regions
software.amazon.awssdk:retries
software.amazon.awssdk:retries-spi
software.amazon.awssdk:sagemaker
software.amazon.awssdk:sagemakerruntime
software.amazon.awssdk:sdk-core
software.amazon.awssdk:sts
software.amazon.awssdk:third-party-jackson-core
software.amazon.awssdk:url-connection-client
software.amazon.awssdk:utils
software.amazon.eventstream:eventstream
sts
swagger-annotations
swagger-annotations-jakarta
swagger-annotations-jakarta-2.2.47.jar
swagger-core
swagger-core-jakarta
swagger-core-jakarta-2.2.47.jar
swagger-integration-jakarta
swagger-integration-jakarta-2.2.47.jar
swagger-jaxrs2-jakarta
swagger-jaxrs2-jakarta-2.2.47.jar
swagger-models
swagger-models-jakarta
swagger-models-jakarta-2.2.47.jar
third-party-jackson-core-2.41.21.jar
third-party-jackson-core-2.42.16.jar
tomcat-jdbc
tomcat-jdbc-11.0.14.jar
tomcat-jdbc-11.0.15.jar
tomcat-jdbc-11.0.21.jar
tomcat-juli-11.0.14.jar
tomcat-juli-11.0.15.jar
tomcat-juli-11.0.21.jar
url-connection-client
utils
utils-lite
vertx-core
vertx-core-5.0.10.jar
vertx-core-logging
vertx-core-logging-5.0.10.jar
vertx-grpc
vertx-grpc-5.0.10.jar
xalan
xalan:serializer
xalan:xalan
xml-apis:xml-apis

                                Apache License

                           Version 2.0, January 2004

                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.



END OF APACHE-2.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BSD-2-CLAUSE CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the BSD-2-Clause license:

Jinja2
com.github.luben:zstd-jni
decorator
io.github.crac:org-crac
org.postgresql:postgresql
postgresql

Copyright (c) <YEAR> <COPYRIGHT HOLDER>

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, 
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list 
of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this 
list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other 
materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND 
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES 
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT 
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, 
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT 
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, 
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF 
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


END OF BSD-2-CLAUSE CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BSD-3-CLAUSE CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the BSD-3-Clause license:

MarkupSafe
asm-9.9.1.jar
com.github.mwiede:jsch
com.github.virtuald:curvesapi
com.google.protobuf:protobuf-java-util
com.jcraft:jsch
com.jcraft:jzlib
com.sun.activation:jakarta.activation
com.sun.istack:istack-commons-runtime
com.sun.istack:istack-commons-tools
com.sun.xml.bind.external:relaxng-datatype
com.sun.xml.bind.external:rngom
com.sun.xml.bind:jaxb-impl
com.sun.xml.bind:jaxb-jxc
com.sun.xml.bind:jaxb-osgi
com.sun.xml.bind:jaxb-xjc
com.sun.xml.dtd-parser:dtd-parser
golang.org/x/net
golang.org/x/oauth2
golang.org/x/sys
golang.org/x/term
golang.org/x/text
google.golang.org/protobuf
gopkg.in/evanphx/json-patch.v4
idna
jakarta.persistence:jakarta.persistence-api
jakarta.xml.bind:jakarta.xml.bind-api
jakarta.xml.ws:jakarta.xml.ws-api
jersey-server-4.0.2.jar
jline-native
jline-terminal
jline-terminal-jni
libarchive
org.eclipse.angus:angus-activation
org.eclipse.jgit:org.eclipse.jgit
org.eclipse.jgit:org.eclipse.jgit.archive
org.eclipse.jgit:org.eclipse.jgit.ssh.jsch
org.glassfish.jaxb:codemodel
org.glassfish.jaxb:jaxb-jxc
org.glassfish.jaxb:jaxb-runtime
org.glassfish.jaxb:jaxb-xjc
org.glassfish.jaxb:txw2
org.glassfish.jaxb:xsom
org.jline:jline-native
org.jline:jline-terminal
org.jline:jline-terminal-jni
org.jvnet.staxex:stax-ex
org.ow2.asm:asm-analysis
org.ow2.asm:asm-commons
org.ow2.asm:asm-tree
org.ow2.asm:asm-util
org.threeten:threetenbp
protobuf-java
protobuf-java-4.33.5.jar
protobuf-java-4.34.0.jar
protobuf-java-util-4.34.0.jar
supervisor
xsom

Copyright (c) <YEAR> <COPYRIGHT HOLDER>

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions 
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its 
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from 
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS 
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED 
TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT 
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, 
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED 
TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


END OF BSD-3-CLAUSE CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BOUNCY CASTLE LICENSE CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Bouncy Castle License license:

bcprov-jdk18on
bcprov-jdk18on-1.83.jar
org.bouncycastle:bcprov-jdk15on
org.bouncycastle:bcprov-jdk18on

Copyright (c) 2000 - 2021 The Legion of the Bouncy Castle Inc. 
(https://www.bouncycastle.org)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of 
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in 
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, 
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the 
Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, 
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all 
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, 
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT 
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION 
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE 
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


END OF BOUNCY CASTLE LICENSE CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CDDL-1.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the CDDL-1.0 license:

jakarta.activation:activation
javax.activation:activation
javax.annotation:javax.annotation-api
javax.ejb:ejb
javax.xml.bind:jaxb-api
org.glassfish:javax.json

COMMON DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE Version 1.0 (CDDL-1.0)

1. Definitions.

1.1. Contributor means each individual or entity that creates or contributes to 
the creation of Modifications.

1.2. Contributor Version means the combination of the Original Software, prior Modifications 
used by a Contributor (if any), and the Modifications made by that particular Contributor.

1.3. Covered Software means (a) the Original Software, or (b) Modifications, or 
(c) the combination of files containing Original Software with files containing 
Modifications, in each case including portions thereof.

1.4. Executable means the Covered Software in any form other than Source Code.

1.5. Initial Developer means the individual or entity that first makes Original 
Software available under this License.

1.6. Larger Work means a work which combines Covered Software or portions thereof 
with code not governed by the terms of this License.

1.7. License means this document.

1.8. Licensable means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent possible, 
whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently acquired, any and all of 
the rights conveyed herein.

1.9. Modifications means the Source Code and Executable form of any of the following:

A. Any file that results from an addition to, deletion from or modification of the 
contents of a file containing Original Software or previous Modifications;

B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Software or previous Modification; 
or
C. Any new file that is contributed or otherwise made available under the terms 
of this License.

1.10. Original Software means the Source Code and Executable form of computer software 
code that is originally released under this License.

1.11. Patent Claims means any patent claim(s), now owned or hereafter acquired, 
including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims, in any patent 
Licensable by grantor.

1.12. Source Code means (a) the common form of computer software code in which modifications 
are made and (b) associated documentation included in or with such code.

1.13. You (or Your) means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights under, 
and complying with all of the terms of, this License. For legal entities, You includes 
any entity which controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with You. 

For purposes of this definition, control means (a) the power, direct or indirect, 
to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, 
or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial 
ownership of such entity.

2. License Grants.

2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.

Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and subject to third party 
intellectual property claims, the Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, 
royalty-free, non-exclusive license:

(a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable 
by Initial Developer, to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and 
distribute the Original Software (or portions thereof), with or without Modifications, 
and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

(b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using or selling of Original Software, 
to make, have made, use, practice, sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose 
of the Original Software (or portions thereof).

(c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.1(a) and (b) are effective on the date Initial 
Developer first distributes or otherwise makes the Original Software available to 
a third party under the terms of this License.

(d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is granted: (1) for 
code that You delete from the Original Software, or (2) for infringements caused 
by: (i) the modification of the Original Software, or (ii) the combination of the 
Original Software with other software or devices.

2.2. Contributor Grant.

Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and subject to third party 
intellectual property claims, each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, 
non-exclusive license:

(a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable 
by Contributor to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute 
the Modifications created by such Contributor (or portions thereof), either on an 
unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as Covered Software and/or as part of 
a Larger Work; and

(b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or selling of Modifications 
made by that Contributor either alone and/or in combination with its Contributor 
Version (or portions of such combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have 
made, and/or otherwise dispose of: (1) Modifications made by that Contributor (or 
portions thereof); and (2) the combination of Modifications made by that Contributor 
with its Contributor Version (or portions of such combination).

(c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are effective on the date 
Contributor first distributes or otherwise makes the Modifications available to 
a third party.

(d) Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is granted: (1) for 
any code that Contributor has deleted from the Contributor Version; (2) for infringements 
caused by: (i) third party modifications of Contributor Version, or (ii) the combination 
of Modifications made by that Contributor with other software (except as part of 
the Contributor Version) or other devices; or (3) under Patent Claims infringed 
by Covered Software in the absence of Modifications made by that Contributor.

3. Distribution Obligations.

3.1. Availability of Source Code.

Any Covered Software that You distribute or otherwise make available in Executable 
form must also be made available in Source Code form and that Source Code form must 
be distributed only under the terms of this License. You must include a copy of 
this License with every copy of the Source Code form of the Covered Software You 
distribute or otherwise make available. You must inform recipients of any such Covered 
Software in Executable form as to how they can obtain such Covered Software in Source 
Code form in a reasonable manner on or through a medium customarily used for software 
exchange.

3.2. Modifications.

The Modifications that You create or to which You contribute are governed by the 
terms of this License. You represent that You believe Your Modifications are Your 
original creation(s) and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed 
by this License.

3.3. Required Notices.

You must include a notice in each of Your Modifications that identifies You as the 
Contributor of the Modification. You may not remove or alter any copyright, patent 
or trademark notices contained within the Covered Software, or any notices of licensing 
or any descriptive text giving attribution to any Contributor or the Initial Developer.

3.4. Application of Additional Terms.

You may not offer or impose any terms on any Covered Software in Source Code form 
that alters or restricts the applicable version of this License or the recipients 
rights hereunder. You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty, support, 
indemnity or liability obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Software. 
However, you may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial 
Developer or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear that any such warranty, 
support, indemnity or liability obligation is offered by You alone, and You hereby 
agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability 
incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of warranty, support, 
indemnity or liability terms You offer.

3.5. Distribution of Executable Versions.

You may distribute the Executable form of the Covered Software under the terms of 
this License or under the terms of a license of Your choice, which may contain terms 
different from this License, provided that You are in compliance with the terms 
of this License and that the license for the Executable form does not attempt to 
limit or alter the recipients rights in the Source Code form from the rights set 
forth in this License. If You distribute the Covered Software in Executable form 
under a different license, You must make it absolutely clear that any terms which 
differ from this License are offered by You alone, not by the Initial Developer 
or Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor 
for any liability incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result 
of any such terms You offer.

3.6. Larger Works.

You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Software with other code not governed 
by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger Work as a single product. 
In such a case, You must make sure the requirements of this License are fulfilled 
for the Covered Software.

4. Versions of the License.

4.1. New Versions.

Sun Microsystems, Inc. is the initial license steward and may publish revised and/or 
new versions of this License from time to time. Each version will be given a distinguishing 
version number. Except as provided in Section 4.3, no one other than the license 
steward has the right to modify this License.

4.2. Effect of New Versions.

You may always continue to use, distribute or otherwise make the Covered Software 
available under the terms of the version of the License under which You originally 
received the Covered Software. If the Initial Developer includes a notice in the 
Original Software prohibiting it from being distributed or otherwise made available 
under any subsequent version of the License, You must distribute and make the Covered 
Software available under the terms of the version of the License under which You 
originally received the Covered Software. Otherwise, You may also choose to use, 
distribute or otherwise make the Covered Software available under the terms of any 
subsequent version of the License published by the license steward.

4.3. Modified Versions.

When You are an Initial Developer and You want to create a new license for Your 
Original Software, You may create and use a modified version of this License if 
You: (a) rename the license and remove any references to the name of the license 
steward (except to note that the license differs from this License); and (b) otherwise 
make it clear that the license contains terms which differ from this License.

5. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.

COVERED SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN AS IS BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTY 
OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES 
THAT THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR 
PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF 
THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN 
ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE 
COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY 
CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED SOFTWARE IS 
AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

6. TERMINATION.

6.1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically 
if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days 
of becoming aware of the breach. Provisions which, by their nature, must remain 
in effect beyond the termination of this License shall survive.

6.2. If You assert a patent infringement claim (excluding declaratory judgment actions) 
against Initial Developer or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor 
against whom You assert such claim is referred to as Participant) alleging that 
the Participant Software (meaning the Contributor Version where the Participant 
is a Contributor or the Original Software where the Participant is the Initial Developer) 
directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted directly 
or indirectly to You by such Participant, the Initial Developer (if the Initial 
Developer is not the Participant) and all Contributors under Sections 2.1 and/or 

2.2 of this License shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively 
and automatically at the expiration of such 60 day notice period, unless if within 
such 60 day period You withdraw Your claim with respect to the Participant Software 
against such Participant either unilaterally or pursuant to a written agreement 
with Participant.

6.3. In the event of termination under Sections 6.1 or 6.2 above, all end user licenses 
that have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder prior to termination 
(excluding licenses granted to You by any distributor) shall survive termination.

7. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), 
CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, 
OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED SOFTWARE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, 
BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOST PROFITS, 
LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL 
OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED 
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY 
TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTYS NEGLIGENCE 
TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT 
ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS 
EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

8. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.

The Covered Software is a commercial item, as that term is defined in 48 C.F.R. 
2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of commercial computer software (as that term is defined 
at 48 C.F.R.  252.227-7014(a)(1)) and commercial computer software documentation 
as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 
12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government 
End Users acquire Covered Software with only those rights set forth herein. This 
U.S. Government Rights clause is in lieu of, and supersedes, any other FAR, DFAR, 
or other clause or provision that addresses Government rights in computer software 
under this License.

9. MISCELLANEOUS.

This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject matter hereof. 
If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall 
be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. This License shall 
be governed by the law of the jurisdiction specified in a notice contained within 
the Original Software (except to the extent applicable law, if any, provides otherwise), 
excluding such jurisdictions conflict-of-law provisions. Any litigation relating 
to this License shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts located in the 
jurisdiction and venue specified in a notice contained within the Original Software, 
with the losing party responsible for costs, including, without limitation, court 
costs and reasonable attorneys fees and expenses. The application of the United 
Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly 
excluded. Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a contract shall 
be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this License. You agree that 
You alone are responsible for compliance with the United States export administration 
regulations (and the export control laws and regulation of any other countries) 
when You use, distribute or otherwise make available any Covered Software.

10. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.

As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is responsible for 
claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of rights 
under this License and You agree to work with Initial Developer and Contributors 
to distribute such responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended 
or shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.


END OF CDDL-1.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CDDL-1.1 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the CDDL-1.1 license:

javax.annotation-api-1.3.2.jar
javax.json:javax.json-api
javax.transaction:javax.transaction-api
javax.xml.bind.jaxb-api-2.3.1.jar
javax.xml.bind:jaxb-api
org.glassfish:javax.json
org.jboss.jdeparser:jdeparser

COMMON DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE (CDDL - Version 1.1)

1. Definitions.
1.1. "Contributor" means each individual or entity that creates or contributes to 
the creation of Modifications.

1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original Software, prior 
Modifications used by a Contributor (if any), and the Modifications made by that 
particular Contributor.

1.3. "Covered Software" means (a) the Original Software, or (b) Modifications, or 
(c) the combination of files containing Original Software with files containing 
Modifications, in each case including portions thereof.

1.4. "Executable" means the Covered Software in any form other than Source Code.

1.5. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity that first makes Original 
Software available under this License.

1.6. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Software or portions thereof 
with code not governed by the terms of this License.

1.7. "License" means this document.

1.8. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent possible, 
whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently acquired, any and all of 
the rights conveyed herein.

1.9. "Modifications" means the Source Code and Executable form of any of the following:

A. Any file that results from an addition to, deletion from or modification of the 
contents of a file containing Original Software or previous Modifications;

B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Software or previous Modification; 
or

C. Any new file that is contributed or otherwise made available under the terms 
of this License.

1.10. "Original Software" means the Source Code and Executable form of computer 
software code that is originally released under this License.

1.11. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or hereafter acquired, 
including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims, in any patent 
Licensable by grantor.

1.12. "Source Code" means (a) the common form of computer software code in which 
modifications are made and (b) associated documentation included in or with such 
code.

1.13. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights 
under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License. For legal entities, 
"You" includes any entity which controls, is controlled by, or is under common control 
with You. For purposes of this definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct 
or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract 
or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding 
shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.

2. License Grants.
2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.

Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and subject to third party 
intellectual property claims, the Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, 
royalty-free, non-exclusive license:

(a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable 
by Initial Developer, to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and 
distribute the Original Software (or portions thereof), with or without Modifications, 
and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

(b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using or selling of Original Software, 
to make, have made, use, practice, sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose 
of the Original Software (or portions thereof).

(c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.1(a) and (b) are effective on the date Initial 
Developer first distributes or otherwise makes the Original Software available to 
a third party under the terms of this License.

(d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is granted: (1) for 
code that You delete from the Original Software, or (2) for infringements caused 
by: (i) the modification of the Original Software, or (ii) the combination of the 
Original Software with other software or devices.

2.2. Contributor Grant.

Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and subject to third party 
intellectual property claims, each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, 
non-exclusive license:

(a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable 
by Contributor to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute 
the Modifications created by such Contributor (or portions thereof), either on an 
unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as Covered Software and/or as part of 
a Larger Work; and

(b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or selling of Modifications 
made by that Contributor either alone and/or in combination with its Contributor 
Version (or portions of such combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have 
made, and/or otherwise dispose of: (1) Modifications made by that Contributor (or 
portions thereof); and (2) the combination of Modifications made by that Contributor 
with its Contributor Version (or portions of such combination).

(c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are effective on the date 
Contributor first distributes or otherwise makes the Modifications available to 
a third party.

(d) Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is granted: (1) for 
any code that Contributor has deleted from the Contributor Version; (2) for infringements 
caused by: (i) third party modifications of Contributor Version, or (ii) the combination 
of Modifications made by that Contributor with other software (except as part of 
the Contributor Version) or other devices; or (3) under Patent Claims infringed 
by Covered Software in the absence of Modifications made by that Contributor.

3. Distribution Obligations.
3.1. Availability of Source Code.

Any Covered Software that You distribute or otherwise make available in Executable 
form must also be made available in Source Code form and that Source Code form must 
be distributed only under the terms of this License. You must include a copy of 
this License with every copy of the Source Code form of the Covered Software You 
distribute or otherwise make available. You must inform recipients of any such Covered 
Software in Executable form as to how they can obtain such Covered Software in Source 
Code form in a reasonable manner on or through a medium customarily used for software 
exchange.

3.2. Modifications.

The Modifications that You create or to which You contribute are governed by the 
terms of this License. You represent that You believe Your Modifications are Your 
original creation(s) and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed 
by this License.

3.3. Required Notices.

You must include a notice in each of Your Modifications that identifies You as the 
Contributor of the Modification. You may not remove or alter any copyright, patent 
or trademark notices contained within the Covered Software, or any notices of licensing 
or any descriptive text giving attribution to any Contributor or the Initial Developer.

3.4. Application of Additional Terms.

You may not offer or impose any terms on any Covered Software in Source Code form 
that alters or restricts the applicable version of this License or the recipients' 
rights hereunder. You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty, support, 
indemnity or liability obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Software. 
However, you may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial 
Developer or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear that any such warranty, 
support, indemnity or liability obligation is offered by You alone, and You hereby 
agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability 
incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of warranty, support, 
indemnity or liability terms You offer.

3.5. Distribution of Executable Versions.

You may distribute the Executable form of the Covered Software under the terms of 
this License or under the terms of a license of Your choice, which may contain terms 
different from this License, provided that You are in compliance with the terms 
of this License and that the license for the Executable form does not attempt to 
limit or alter the recipient's rights in the Source Code form from the rights set 
forth in this License. If You distribute the Covered Software in Executable form 
under a different license, You must make it absolutely clear that any terms which 
differ from this License are offered by You alone, not by the Initial Developer 
or Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor 
for any liability incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result 
of any such terms You offer.

3.6. Larger Works.

You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Software with other code not governed 
by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger Work as a single product. 
In such a case, You must make sure the requirements of this License are fulfilled 
for the Covered Software.

4. Versions of the License.
4.1. New Versions.

Oracle is the initial license steward and may publish revised and/or new versions 
of this License from time to time. Each version will be given a distinguishing version 
number. Except as provided in Section 4.3, no one other than the license steward 
has the right to modify this License.

4.2. Effect of New Versions.

You may always continue to use, distribute or otherwise make the Covered Software 
available under the terms of the version of the License under which You originally 
received the Covered Software. If the Initial Developer includes a notice in the 
Original Software prohibiting it from being distributed or otherwise made available 
under any subsequent version of the License, You must distribute and make the Covered 
Software available under the terms of the version of the License under which You 
originally received the Covered Software. Otherwise, You may also choose to use, 
distribute or otherwise make the Covered Software available under the terms of any 
subsequent version of the License published by the license steward.

4.3. Modified Versions.

When You are an Initial Developer and You want to create a new license for Your 
Original Software, You may create and use a modified version of this License if 
You: (a) rename the license and remove any references to the name of the license 
steward (except to note that the license differs from this License); and (b) otherwise 
make it clear that the license contains terms which differ from this License.

5. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.
COVERED SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTY 
OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES 
THAT THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR 
PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF 
THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN 
ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE 
COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY 
CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED SOFTWARE IS 
AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

6. TERMINATION.
6.1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically 
if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days 
of becoming aware of the breach. Provisions which, by their nature, must remain 
in effect beyond the termination of this License shall survive.

6.2. If You assert a patent infringement claim (excluding declaratory judgment actions) 
against Initial Developer or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor 
against whom You assert such claim is referred to as "Participant") alleging that 
the Participant Software (meaning the Contributor Version where the Participant 
is a Contributor or the Original Software where the Participant is the Initial Developer) 
directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted directly 
or indirectly to You by such Participant, the Initial Developer (if the Initial 
Developer is not the Participant) and all Contributors under Sections 2.1 and/or 
2.2 of this License shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively 
and automatically at the expiration of such 60 day notice period, unless if within 
such 60 day period You withdraw Your claim with respect to the Participant Software 
against such Participant either unilaterally or pursuant to a written agreement 
with Participant.

6.3. If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participant alleging that 
the Participant Software directly or indirectly infringes any patent where such 
claim is resolved (such as by license or settlement) prior to the initiation of 
patent infringement litigation, then the reasonable value of the licenses granted 
by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be taken into account in determining 
the amount or value of any payment or license.

6.4. In the event of termination under Sections 6.1 or 6.2 above, all end user licenses 
that have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder prior to termination 
(excluding licenses granted to You by any distributor) shall survive termination.

7. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), 
CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, 
OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED SOFTWARE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, 
BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, 
WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL 
DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY 
OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH 
OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE 
LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR 
LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION 
MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

8. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.
The Covered Software is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in 48 C.F.R. 
2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer software" (as that term is 
defined at 48 C.F.R. S 252.227-7014(a)(1)) and "commercial computer software documentation" 
as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 
12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government 
End Users acquire Covered Software with only those rights set forth herein. This 
U.S. Government Rights clause is in lieu of, and supersedes, any other FAR, DFAR, 
or other clause or provision that addresses Government rights in computer software 
under this License.

9. MISCELLANEOUS.
This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject matter hereof. 
If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall 
be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. This License shall 
be governed by the law of the jurisdiction specified in a notice contained within 
the Original Software (except to the extent applicable law, if any, provides otherwise), 
excluding such jurisdiction's conflict-of-law provisions. Any litigation relating 
to this License shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts located in the 
jurisdiction and venue specified in a notice contained within the Original Software, 
with the losing party responsible for costs, including, without limitation, court 
costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses. The application of the United 
Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly 
excluded. Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a contract shall 
be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this License. You agree that 
You alone are responsible for compliance with the United States export administration 
regulations (and the export control laws and regulation of any other countries) 
when You use, distribute or otherwise make available any Covered Software.

10. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.
As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is responsible for 
claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of rights 
under this License and You agree to work with Initial Developer and Contributors 
to distribute such responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended 
or shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.

NOTICE PURSUANT TO SECTION 9 OF THE COMMON DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE 
(CDDL)

The code released under the CDDL shall be governed by the laws of the State of California 
(excluding conflict-of-law provisions). Any litigation relating to this License 
shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the Northern District 
of California and the state courts of the State of California, with venue lying 
in Santa Clara County, California.


END OF CDDL-1.1 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CPL-1.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the CPL-1.0 license:

junit:junit

Common Public License - v 1.0

THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS COMMON PUBLIC LICENSE 
("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM CONSTITUTES 
RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.

1. DEFINITIONS

"Contribution" means:
      a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and documentation 
distributed under this Agreement, and
      b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:
      i) changes to the Program, and
      ii) additions to the Program;
      where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and are 
distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution 'originates' from a Contributor 
if it was added to the Program by such Contributor itself or anyone acting on such 
Contributor's behalf. Contributions do not include additions to the Program which: 
(i) are separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with the Program 
under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not derivative works of the Program. 

"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.

"Licensed Patents " mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which are necessarily 
infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone or when combined with the 
Program.

"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this Agreement.

"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement, including 
all Contributors.

2. GRANT OF RIGHTS

      a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants 
Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to reproduce, 
prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, distribute and 
sublicense the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, 
in source code and object code form.

      b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants 
Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under Licensed 
Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise transfer the Contribution 
of such Contributor, if any, in source code and object code form. This patent license 
shall apply to the combination of the Contribution and the Program if, at the time 
the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition of the Contribution 
causes such combination to be covered by the Licensed Patents. The patent license 
shall not apply to any other combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware 
per se is licensed hereunder. 

      c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the licenses 
to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are provided by any Contributor 
that the Program does not infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights 
of any other entity. Each Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims 
brought by any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights 
or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, 
each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual 
property rights needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent license is 
required to allow Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility 
to acquire that license before distributing the Program.

      d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient copyright 
rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright license set forth in 
this Agreement. 

3. REQUIREMENTS

A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form under its 
own license agreement, provided that:

      a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and

      b) its license agreement:

      i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties and 
conditions, express and implied, including warranties or conditions of title and 
non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of merchantability and fitness 
for a particular purpose; 

      ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability for damages, 
including direct, indirect, special, incidental and consequential damages, such 
as lost profits; 

      iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are offered 
by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and

      iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such Contributor, 
and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable manner on or through a medium 
customarily used for software exchange. 

When the Program is made available in source code form:

      a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and 

      b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program. 

Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained within the 
Program.

Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its Contribution, if 
any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent Recipients to identify the originator 
of the Contribution.

4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION

Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities with respect 
to end users, business partners and the like. While this license is intended to 
facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the Contributor who includes the Program 
in a commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does not create 
potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if a Contributor includes 
the Program in a commercial product offering, such Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") 
hereby agrees to defend and indemnify every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") 
against any losses, damages and costs (collectively "Losses") arising from claims, 
lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified 
Contributor to the extent caused by the acts or omissions of such Commercial Contributor 
in connection with its distribution of the Program in a commercial product offering. 
The obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses relating to 
any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. In order to qualify, an 
Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial Contributor in writing 
of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial Contributor to control, and cooperate 
with the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and any related settlement negotiations. 
The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such claim at its own expense.
For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial product offering, 
Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial Contributor. If that Commercial 
Contributor then makes performance claims, or offers warranties related to Product 
X, those performance claims and warranties are such Commercial Contributor's responsibility 
alone. Under this section, the Commercial Contributor would have to defend claims 
against the other Contributors related to those performance claims and warranties, 
and if a court requires any other Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the 
Commercial Contributor must pay those damages.

5. NO WARRANTY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS 
IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, 
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely responsible 
for determining the appropriateness of using and distributing the Program and assumes 
all risks associated with its exercise of rights under this Agreement, including 
but not limited to the risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable 
laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption 
of operations.

6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR ANY CONTRIBUTORS 
SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, 
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED 
AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE 
PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE 
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. GENERAL

If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable 
law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the 
terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such 
provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision 
valid and enforceable.

If Recipient institutes patent litigation against a Contributor with respect to 
a patent applicable to software (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit), 
then any patent licenses granted by that Contributor to such Recipient under this 
Agreement shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed. In addition, 
if Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim 
or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program itself (excluding combinations 
of the Program with other software or hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), 
then such Recipient's rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the 
date such litigation is filed.

All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails to comply 
with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and does not cure 
such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. 
If all Recipient's rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease 
use and distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably practicable. However, 
Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and any licenses granted by Recipient 
relating to the Program shall continue and survive.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, but in order 
to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may only be modified in 
the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves the right to publish new versions 
(including revisions) of this Agreement from time to time. No one other than the 
Agreement Steward has the right to modify this Agreement. IBM is the initial Agreement 
Steward. IBM may assign the responsibility to serve as the Agreement Steward to 
a suitable separate entity. Each new version of the Agreement will be given a distinguishing 
version number. The Program (including Contributions) may always be distributed 
subject to the version of the Agreement under which it was received. In addition, 
after a new version of the Agreement is published, Contributor may elect to distribute 
the Program (including its Contributions) under the new version. Except as expressly 
stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses 
to the intellectual property of any Contributor under this Agreement, whether expressly, 
by implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not expressly granted 
under this Agreement are reserved.

This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and the intellectual 
property laws of the United States of America. No party to this Agreement will bring 
a legal action under this Agreement more than one year after the cause of action 
arose. Each party waives its rights to a jury trial in any resulting litigation. 


END OF CPL-1.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EDL-1.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the EDL-1.0 license:

codemodel
istack-commons-runtime-4.1.2.jar
jakarta.xml.bind-api-4.0.5.jar
jaxb-core
jaxb-core-4.0.7.jar
jaxb-jxc
jaxb-osgi
jaxb-osgi-4.0.7.jar
jaxb-runtime
jaxb-runtime-4.0.7.jar
jaxb-xjc
relaxng-datatype
rngom
txw2
txw2-4.0.7.jar

Eclipse Distribution License - v 1.0

Copyright (c) 2007, Eclipse Foundation, Inc. and its licensors.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, 
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list 
of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list 
of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials 
provided with the distribution.

Neither the name of the Eclipse Foundation, Inc. nor the names of its contributors 
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific 
prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND 
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES 
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT 
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, 
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT 
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, 
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF 
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


END OF EDL-1.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EPL-1.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the EPL-1.0 license:

ch.qos.logback:logback-classic
ch.qos.logback:logback-core
javax.persistence:javax.persistence-api
junit:junit
logback-classic
logback-core



Eclipse Public License - v 1.0

THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS ECLIPSE PUBLIC LICENSE 
("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM CONSTITUTES 
RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.

1. DEFINITIONS

"Contribution" means:

a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and documentation distributed 
under this Agreement, and
b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:
i) changes to the Program, and
ii) additions to the Program;
where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and are distributed 
by that particular Contributor. A Contribution 'originates' from a Contributor if 
it was added to the Program by such Contributor itself or anyone acting on such 
Contributor's behalf. Contributions do not include additions to the Program which: 
(i) are separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with the Program 
under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not derivative works of the Program.
"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.

"Licensed Patents" mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which are necessarily 
infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone or when combined with the 
Program.

"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this Agreement.

"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement, including 
all Contributors.

2. GRANT OF RIGHTS

a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient 
a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to reproduce, prepare 
derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, distribute and sublicense 
the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in source 
code and object code form.
b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient 
a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under Licensed Patents to 
make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of 
such Contributor, if any, in source code and object code form. This patent license 
shall apply to the combination of the Contribution and the Program if, at the time 
the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition of the Contribution 
causes such combination to be covered by the Licensed Patents. The patent license 
shall not apply to any other combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware 
per se is licensed hereunder.
c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the licenses to its 
Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are provided by any Contributor that 
the Program does not infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of 
any other entity. Each Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims 
brought by any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights 
or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, 
each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual 
property rights needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent license is 
required to allow Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility 
to acquire that license before distributing the Program.
d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient copyright 
rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright license set forth in 
this Agreement.
3. REQUIREMENTS

A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form under its 
own license agreement, provided that:

a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and
b) its license agreement:
i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties and conditions, 
express and implied, including warranties or conditions of title and non-infringement, 
and implied warranties or conditions of merchantability and fitness for a particular 
purpose;
ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability for damages, 
including direct, indirect, special, incidental and consequential damages, such 
as lost profits;
iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are offered by 
that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and
iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such Contributor, 
and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable manner on or through a medium 
customarily used for software exchange.
When the Program is made available in source code form:

a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and
b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program.
Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained within the 
Program.

Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its Contribution, if 
any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent Recipients to identify the originator 
of the Contribution.

4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION

Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities with respect 
to end users, business partners and the like. While this license is intended to 
facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the Contributor who includes the Program 
in a commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does not create 
potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if a Contributor includes 
the Program in a commercial product offering, such Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") 
hereby agrees to defend and indemnify every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") 
against any losses, damages and costs (collectively "Losses") arising from claims, 
lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified 
Contributor to the extent caused by the acts or omissions of such Commercial Contributor 
in connection with its distribution of the Program in a commercial product offering. 
The obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses relating to 
any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. In order to qualify, an 
Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial Contributor in writing 
of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial Contributor to control, and cooperate 
with the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and any related settlement negotiations. 
The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such claim at its own expense.

For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial product offering, 
Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial Contributor. If that Commercial 
Contributor then makes performance claims, or offers warranties related to Product 
X, those performance claims and warranties are such Commercial Contributor's responsibility 
alone. Under this section, the Commercial Contributor would have to defend claims 
against the other Contributors related to those performance claims and warranties, 
and if a court requires any other Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the 
Commercial Contributor must pay those damages.

5. NO WARRANTY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS 
IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, 
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely responsible 
for determining the appropriateness of using and distributing the Program and assumes 
all risks associated with its exercise of rights under this Agreement , including 
but not limited to the risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable 
laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption 
of operations.

6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR ANY CONTRIBUTORS 
SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, 
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED 
AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE 
PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE 
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. GENERAL

If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable 
law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the 
terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such 
provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision 
valid and enforceable.

If Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim 
or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program itself (excluding combinations 
of the Program with other software or hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), 
then such Recipient's rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the 
date such litigation is filed.

All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails to comply 
with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and does not cure 
such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. 
If all Recipient's rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease 
use and distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably practicable. However, 
Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and any licenses granted by Recipient 
relating to the Program shall continue and survive.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, but in order 
to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may only be modified in 
the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves the right to publish new versions 
(including revisions) of this Agreement from time to time. No one other than the 
Agreement Steward has the right to modify this Agreement. The Eclipse Foundation 
is the initial Agreement Steward. The Eclipse Foundation may assign the responsibility 
to serve as the Agreement Steward to a suitable separate entity. Each new version 
of the Agreement will be given a distinguishing version number. The Program (including 
Contributions) may always be distributed subject to the version of the Agreement 
under which it was received. In addition, after a new version of the Agreement is 
published, Contributor may elect to distribute the Program (including its Contributions) 
under the new version. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, 
Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual property of any Contributor 
under this Agreement, whether expressly, by implication, estoppel or otherwise. 
All rights in the Program not expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved.

This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and the intellectual 
property laws of the United States of America. No party to this Agreement will bring 
a legal action under this Agreement more than one year after the cause of action 
arose. Each party waives its rights to a jury trial in any resulting litigation.


END OF EPL-1.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EPL-2.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the EPL-2.0 license:

aopalliance-repackaged-4.0.0-M3.jar
ecj-3.44.0.jar
hk2-api-4.0.0-M3.jar
hk2-utils-4.0.0-M3.jar
jakarta.annotation.jakarta.annotation-api-2.1.1.jar
jakarta.authentication:jakarta.authentication-api
jakarta.authorization:jakarta.authorization-api
jakarta.el:jakarta.el-api
jakarta.interceptor:jakarta.interceptor-api
jakarta.json.bind:jakarta.json.bind-api
jakarta.resource:jakarta.resource-api
jakarta.servlet.jsp.jstl:jakarta.servlet.jsp.jstl-api
jakarta.servlet:jakarta.servlet-api
jakarta.transaction:jakarta.transaction-api
jakarta.ws.rs:jakarta.ws.rs-api
jdtCompilerAdapter.jar
jersey-common-4.0.2.jar
junit-bom
junit-platform-suite-api
org.eclipse.emf.edit
org.eclipse.emf:org.eclipse.emf.ecore.edit
org.eclipse.emf:org.eclipse.emf.ecore.xmi
org.eclipse.emf:org.eclipse.emf.edit
org.eclipse.jdt:ecj
org.eclipse.parsson:parsson
org.eclipse:yasson
org.glassfish.expressly:expressly
org.glassfish.hk2:hk2-locator
org.glassfish.hk2:osgi-resource-locator
org.glassfish.jersey.containers:jersey-container-servlet
org.glassfish.jersey.containers:jersey-container-servlet-core
org.glassfish.jersey.core:jersey-client
org.glassfish.jersey.core:jersey-server
org.glassfish.jersey.ext:jersey-entity-filtering
org.glassfish.jersey.inject:jersey-hk2
org.glassfish.jersey.media:jersey-media-json-jackson
org.glassfish.web:jakarta.servlet.jsp.jstl
org.junit.jupiter:junit-jupiter
org.junit.jupiter:junit-jupiter-api
org.junit.platform:junit-platform-commons
org.junit.platform:junit-platform-engine
org.junit:junit-bom
osgi-resource-locator-3.0.0.jar



Eclipse Public License - v 2.0

THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS ECLIPSE PUBLIC LICENSE 
("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM CONSTITUTES 
RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.

1. DEFINITIONS
"Contribution" means:

a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial content Distributed under 
this Agreement, and
b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:
i) changes to the Program, and
ii) additions to the Program;
where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and are Distributed 
by that particular Contributor. A Contribution "originates" from a Contributor if 
it was added to the Program by such Contributor itself or anyone acting on such 
Contributor's behalf. Contributions do not include changes or additions to the Program 
that are not Modified Works.
"Contributor" means any person or entity that Distributes the Program.

"Licensed Patents" mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which are necessarily 
infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone or when combined with the 
Program.

"Program" means the Contributions Distributed in accordance with this Agreement.

"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement or any Secondary 
License (as applicable), including Contributors.

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source Code or other form, that 
is based on (or derived from) the Program and for which the editorial revisions, 
annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an original 
work of authorship.

"Modified Works" shall mean any work in Source Code or other form that results from 
an addition to, deletion from, or modification of the contents of the Program, including, 
for purposes of clarity any new file in Source Code form that contains any contents 
of the Program. Modified Works shall not include works that contain only declarations, 
interfaces, types, classes, structures, or files of the Program solely in each case 
in order to link to, bind by name, or subclass the Program or Modified Works thereof.

"Distribute" means the acts of a) distributing or b) making available in any manner 
that enables the transfer of a copy.

"Source Code" means the form of a Program preferred for making modifications, including 
but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration 
files.

"Secondary License" means either the GNU General Public License, Version 2.0, or 
any later versions of that license, including any exceptions or additional permissions 
as identified by the initial Contributor.

2. GRANT OF RIGHTS
a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient 
a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to reproduce, prepare 
Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, Distribute and sublicense 
the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, and such Derivative Works.
b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient 
a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under Licensed Patents to 
make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of 
such Contributor, if any, in Source Code or other form. This patent license shall 
apply to the combination of the Contribution and the Program if, at the time the 
Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition of the Contribution causes 
such combination to be covered by the Licensed Patents. The patent license shall 
not apply to any other combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware 
per se is licensed hereunder.
c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the licenses to its 
Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are provided by any Contributor that 
the Program does not infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of 
any other entity. Each Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims 
brought by any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights 
or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, 
each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual 
property rights needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent license is 
required to allow Recipient to Distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility 
to acquire that license before distributing the Program.
d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient copyright 
rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright license set forth in 
this Agreement.
e) Notwithstanding the terms of any Secondary License, no Contributor makes additional 
grants to any Recipient (other than those set forth in this Agreement) as a result 
of such Recipient's receipt of the Program under the terms of a Secondary License 
(if permitted under the terms of Section 3).
3. REQUIREMENTS
3.1 If a Contributor Distributes the Program in any form, then:

a) the Program must also be made available as Source Code, in accordance with section 
3.2, and the Contributor must accompany the Program with a statement that the Source 
Code for the Program is available under this Agreement, and informs Recipients how 
to obtain it in a reasonable manner on or through a medium customarily used for 
software exchange; and
b) the Contributor may Distribute the Program under a license different than this 
Agreement, provided that such license:
i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all other Contributors all warranties and 
conditions, express and implied, including warranties or conditions of title and 
non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of merchantability and fitness 
for a particular purpose;
ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all other Contributors all liability for damages, 
including direct, indirect, special, incidental and consequential damages, such 
as lost profits;
iii) does not attempt to limit or alter the recipients' rights in the Source Code 
under section 3.2; and
iv) requires any subsequent distribution of the Program by any party to be under 
a license that satisfies the requirements of this section 3.
3.2 When the Program is Distributed as Source Code:

a) it must be made available under this Agreement, or if the Program (i) is combined 
with other material in a separate file or files made available under a Secondary 
License, and (ii) the initial Contributor attached to the Source Code the notice 
described in Exhibit A of this Agreement, then the Program may be made available 
under the terms of such Secondary Licenses, and
b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program.
3.3 Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright, patent, trademark, attribution 
notices, disclaimers of warranty, or limitations of liability ('notices') contained 
within the Program from any copy of the Program which they Distribute, provided 
that Contributors may add their own appropriate notices.

4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION
Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities with respect 
to end users, business partners and the like. While this license is intended to 
facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the Contributor who includes the Program 
in a commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does not create 
potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if a Contributor includes 
the Program in a commercial product offering, such Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") 
hereby agrees to defend and indemnify every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") 
against any losses, damages and costs (collectively "Losses") arising from claims, 
lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified 
Contributor to the extent caused by the acts or omissions of such Commercial Contributor 
in connection with its distribution of the Program in a commercial product offering. 
The obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses relating to 
any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. In order to qualify, an 
Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial Contributor in writing 
of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial Contributor to control, and cooperate 
with the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and any related settlement negotiations. 
The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such claim at its own expense.

For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial product offering, 
Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial Contributor. If that Commercial 
Contributor then makes performance claims, or offers warranties related to Product 
X, those performance claims and warranties are such Commercial Contributor's responsibility 
alone. Under this section, the Commercial Contributor would have to defend claims 
against the other Contributors related to those performance claims and warranties, 
and if a court requires any other Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the 
Commercial Contributor must pay those damages.

5. NO WARRANTY
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, AND TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY 
APPLICABLE LAW, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES 
OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, 
ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS 
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely responsible for determining the 
appropriateness of using and distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated 
with its exercise of rights under this Agreement, including but not limited to the 
risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or 
loss of data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of operations.

6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, AND TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY 
APPLICABLE LAW, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY 
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES 
(INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE 
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR 
THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY 
OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. GENERAL
If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable 
law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the 
terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such 
provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision 
valid and enforceable.

If Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim 
or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program itself (excluding combinations 
of the Program with other software or hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), 
then such Recipient's rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the 
date such litigation is filed.

All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails to comply 
with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and does not cure 
such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. 
If all Recipient's rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease 
use and distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably practicable. However, 
Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and any licenses granted by Recipient 
relating to the Program shall continue and survive.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, but in order 
to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may only be modified in 
the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves the right to publish new versions 
(including revisions) of this Agreement from time to time. No one other than the 
Agreement Steward has the right to modify this Agreement. The Eclipse Foundation 
is the initial Agreement Steward. The Eclipse Foundation may assign the responsibility 
to serve as the Agreement Steward to a suitable separate entity. Each new version 
of the Agreement will be given a distinguishing version number. The Program (including 
Contributions) may always be Distributed subject to the version of the Agreement 
under which it was received. In addition, after a new version of the Agreement is 
published, Contributor may elect to Distribute the Program (including its Contributions) 
under the new version.

Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Recipient receives no 
rights or licenses to the intellectual property of any Contributor under this Agreement, 
whether expressly, by implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program 
not expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved. Nothing in this Agreement 
is intended to be enforceable by any entity that is not a Contributor or Recipient. 
No third-party beneficiary rights are created under this Agreement.

Exhibit A - Form of Secondary Licenses Notice
"This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary Licenses 
when the conditions for such availability set forth in the Eclipse Public License, 
v. 2.0 are satisfied: {name license(s), version(s), and exceptions or additional 
permissions here}."

Simply including a copy of this Agreement, including this Exhibit A is not sufficient 
to license the Source Code under Secondary Licenses.

If it is not possible or desirable to put the notice in a particular file, then 
You may include the notice in a location (such as a LICENSE file in a relevant directory) 
where a recipient would be likely to look for such a notice.

You may add additional accurate notices of copyright ownership.


END OF EPL-2.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ICU CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the ICU license:

com.ibm.icu:core

UNICODE LICENSE V3

COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE

Copyright  1991-2023 Unicode, Inc.

NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY
DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING DATA FILES, AND/OR
SOFTWARE, YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, ALL OF THE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT
DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of data files and any associated documentation (the "Data Files") or
software and any associated documentation (the "Software") to deal in the
Data Files or Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell
copies of the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Data Files or Software are furnished to do so, provided that either (a)
this copyright and permission notice appear with all copies of the Data
Files or Software, or (b) this copyright and permission notice appear in
associated Documentation.

THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF
THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE
BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION,
ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA
FILES OR SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall
not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
dealings in these Data Files or Software without prior written
authorization of the copyright holder.


END OF ICU CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
JDOM CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the JDOM license:

org.jdom:jdom2

Copyright (C) 2000-2012 Jason Hunter & Brett McLaughlin.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, 
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this 
list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this 
list of conditions, and the disclaimer that follows these conditions in the 
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. The name "JDOM" must not be used to endorse or promote products derived from 
this software without prior written permission. For written permission, please 
contact <request_AT_jdom_DOT_org>.

4. Products derived from this software may not be called "JDOM", nor may "JDOM" 
appear in their name, without prior written permission from the JDOM Project Management 
<request_AT_jdom_DOT_org>. In addition, we request (but do not require) that you 
include in the end-user documentation provided with the redistribution and/or in 
the software itself an acknowledgement equivalent to the following:

"This product includes software developed by the JDOM Project (http://www.jdom.org/)."

Alternatively, the acknowledgment may be graphical using the logos available at 
http://www.jdom.org/images/logos.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, 
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE JDOM 
AUTHORS OR THE PROJECT CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, 
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR 
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER 
IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING 
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH 
DAMAGE.

This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many individuals on behalf 
of the JDOM Project and was originally created by Jason Hunter <jhunter_AT_jdom_DOT_org> 
and Brett McLaughlin <brett_AT_jdom_DOT_org>. For more information on the JDOM Project, 
please see <http://www.jdom.org/>.


END OF JDOM CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MODIFIABLE THIRD PARTY CODE

This Program includes some or all of the following Modifiable Third Party Code that IBM obtained under the GNU Lesser General Public License. 
For copies of the source code for this software, contact IBM Support (https://www.ibm.com/mysupport) identifying the IBM Program and the 
Modifiable Third Party Code for which you are requesting the source code.

autocommand

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 3, 29 June 2007

Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing 
it is not allowed.

This version of the GNU Lesser General Public License incorporates the terms and conditions of version 
3 of the GNU General Public License, supplemented by the additional permissions listed below.

0. Additional Definitions.

As used herein, "this License" refers to version 3 of the GNU Lesser General Public License, and the 
"GNU GPL" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

"The Library" refers to a covered work governed by this License, other than an Application or a Combined 
Work as defined below.

An "Application" is any work that makes use of an interface provided by the Library, but which is not 
otherwise based on the Library. Defining a subclass of a class defined by the Library is deemed a mode 
of using an interface provided by the Library.

A "Combined Work" is a work produced by combining or linking an Application with the Library. The particular 
version of the Library with which the Combined Work was made is also called the "Linked Version".

The "Minimal Corresponding Source" for a Combined Work means the Corresponding Source for the Combined 
Work, excluding any source code for portions of the Combined Work that, considered in isolation, are 
based on the Application, and not on the Linked Version.

The "Corresponding Application Code" for a Combined Work means the object code and/or source code for 
the Application, including any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the Combined Work from 
the Application, but excluding the System Libraries of the Combined Work.

1. Exception to Section 3 of the GNU GPL.

You may convey a covered work under sections 3 and 4 of this License without being bound by section 
3 of the GNU GPL.

2. Conveying Modified Versions.

If you modify a copy of the Library, and, in your modifications, a facility refers to a function or 
data to be supplied by an Application that uses the facility (other than as an argument passed when 
the facility is invoked), then you may convey a copy of the modified version:

a) under this License, provided that you make a good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an Application 
does not supply the function or data, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its 
purpose remains meaningful, or
b) under the GNU GPL, with none of the additional permissions of this License applicable to that copy.
3. Object Code Incorporating Material from Library Header Files.

The object code form of an Application may incorporate material from a header file that is part of the 
Library. You may convey such object code under terms of your choice, provided that, if the incorporated 
material is not limited to numerical parameters, data structure layouts and accessors, or small macros, 
inline functions and templates (ten or fewer lines in length), you do both of the following:

a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the object code that the Library is used in it and that the 
Library and its use are covered by this License.
b) Accompany the object code with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license document.
4. Combined Works.

You may convey a Combined Work under terms of your choice that, taken together, effectively do not restrict 
modification of the portions of the Library contained in the Combined Work and reverse engineering for 
debugging such modifications, if you also do each of the following:

a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the Combined Work that the Library is used in it and that 
the Library and its use are covered by this License.
b) Accompany the Combined Work with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license document.
c) For a Combined Work that displays copyright notices during execution, include the copyright notice 
for the Library among these notices, as well as a reference directing the user to the copies of the 
GNU GPL and this license document.
d) Do one of the following:
0) Convey the Minimal Corresponding Source under the terms of this License, and the Corresponding Application 
Code in a form suitable for, and under terms that permit, the user to recombine or relink the Application 
with a modified version of the Linked Version to produce a modified Combined Work, in the manner specified 
by section 6 of the GNU GPL for conveying Corresponding Source.
1) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A suitable mechanism is one 
that (a) uses at run time a copy of the Library already present on the user's computer system, and (b) 
will operate properly with a modified version of the Library that is interface-compatible with the Linked 
Version.
e) Provide Installation Information, but only if you would otherwise be required to provide such information 
under section 6 of the GNU GPL, and only to the extent that such information is necessary to install 
and execute a modified version of the Combined Work produced by recombining or relinking the Application 
with a modified version of the Linked Version. (If you use option 4d0, the Installation Information 
must accompany the Minimal Corresponding Source and Corresponding Application Code. If you use option 
4d1, you must provide the Installation Information in the manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL 
for conveying Corresponding Source.)
5. Combined Libraries.

You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side by side in a single library 
together with other library facilities that are not Applications and are not covered by this License, 
and convey such a combined library under terms of your choice, if you do both of the following:

a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the Library, uncombined with 
any other library facilities, conveyed under the terms of this License.
b) Give prominent notice with the combined library that part of it is a work based on the Library, and 
explaining where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.
6. Revised Versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License.

The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the GNU Lesser General Public 
License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may 
differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library as you received it specifies that 
a certain numbered version of the GNU Lesser General Public License "or any later version" applies to 
it, you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that published version or of 
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library as you received it does 
not specify a version number of the GNU Lesser General Public License, you may choose any version of 
the GNU Lesser General Public License ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

If the Library as you received it specifies that a proxy can decide whether future versions of the GNU 
Lesser General Public License shall apply, that proxy's public statement of acceptance of any version 
is permanent authorization for you to choose that version for the Library.


END OF LGPL-3.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MIT CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the MIT license:

Collectd
async-generator
backports.tarfile
ch.randelshofer:fastdoubleparser
charset-normalizer
classgraph
com.instana:instana-java-sdk
com.jano7:executor
com.microsoft.sqlserver:mssql-jdbc
github.com/jackc/pgx/v5
inflect
jaraco.collections
jaraco.context
jaraco.functools
jaraco.text
jersey-client-4.0.2.jar
jersey-container-servlet
jersey-container-servlet-4.0.2.jar
jersey-entity-filtering-4.0.2.jar
jersey-hk2-4.0.2.jar
jersey-media-multipart
langgraph4j-core
langgraph4j-postgres-saver
mcp-core
mcp-json-jackson2
more-itertools
org.bsc.async:async-generator
org.slf4j:jcl-over-slf4j
org.slf4j:jul-to-slf4j
org.slf4j:slf4j-api
pip
platformdirs
runtime-common-7.0.6.jar
scribejava-core
setuptools
shared-utils-7.0.6.jar
six
slf4j-api
tomli
typeguard
urllib3
wheel
zipp



Copyright <YEAR><COPYRIGHT HOLDER>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to 
any person obtaining a copy of this software and 
associated documentation files (the Software), 
to deal in the Software without restriction, 
including without limitation the rights to use, 
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit 
persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF 
ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED 
TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT 
SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR 
ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN 
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE 
OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

END OF MIT CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MIT-0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the MIT-0 license:

reactive-streams

MIT No Attribution

Copyright <YEAR> <COPYRIGHT HOLDER>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this
software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software
without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify,
merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


END OF MIT-0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MPL-1.1 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the MPL-1.1 license:

org.javassist:javassist

Mozilla Public License

Version 1.1

1. Definitions.

1.0.1. "Commercial Use" means distribution or otherwise making the Covered Code available to a third 
party.1.1. ''Contributor'' means each entity that creates or contributes to the creation of Modifications.1.2. 
''Contributor Version'' means the combination of the Original Code, prior Modifications used by a Contributor, 
and the Modifications made by that particular Contributor.1.3. ''Covered Code'' means the Original Code 
or Modifications or the combination of the Original Code and Modifications, in each case including portions 
thereof.1.4. ''Electronic Distribution Mechanism'' means a mechanism generally accepted in the software 
development community for the electronic transfer of data.
1.5. ''Executable'' means Covered Code in any form other than Source Code.

1.6. ''Initial Developer'' means the individual or entity identified as the Initial Developer in the 
Source Code notice required by Exhibit A.

1.7. ''Larger Work'' means a work which combines Covered Code or portions thereof with code not governed 
by the terms of this License.

1.8. ''License'' means this document.

1.8.1. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent possible, whether at the 
time of the initial grant or subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed herein.

1.9. ''Modifications'' means any addition to or deletion from the substance or structure of either the 
Original Code or any previous Modifications. When Covered Code is released as a series of files, a Modification 
is:

A. Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file containing Original Code or previous Modifications.B. 
Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or previous Modifications.
1.10. ''Original Code'' means Source Code of computer software code which is described in the Source 
Code notice required by Exhibit A as Original Code, and which, at the time of its release under this 
License is not already Covered Code governed by this License.

1.10.1. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or hereafter acquired, including without 
limitation,  method, process, and apparatus claims, in any patent Licensable by grantor.

1.11. ''Source Code'' means the preferred form of the Covered Code for making modifications to it, including 
all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files, scripts used to control compilation 
and installation of an Executable, or source code differential comparisons against either the Original 
Code or another well known, available Covered Code of the Contributor's choice. The Source Code can 
be in a compressed or archival form, provided the appropriate decompression or de-archiving software 
is widely available for no charge.

1.12. "You'' (or "Your")  means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights under, and complying 
with all of the terms of, this License or a future version of this License issued under Section 6.1. 
For legal entities, "You'' includes any entity which controls, is controlled by, or is under common 
control with You. For purposes of this definition, "control'' means (a) the power, direct or indirect, 
to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership 
of more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.

2. Source Code License.

2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.
The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license, subject to 
third party intellectual property claims:
(a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable by Initial Developer 
to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Original Code (or portions 
thereof) with or without Modifications, and/or as part of a Larger Work; and(b) under Patents Claims 
infringed by the making, using or selling of Original Code, to make, have made, use, practice, sell, 
and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the Original Code (or portions thereof).
 
(c) the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are effective on the date Initial Developer 
first distributes Original Code under the terms of this License.

(d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is granted: 1) for code that You delete 
from the Original Code; 2) separate from the Original Code;  or 3) for infringements caused by: i) the 
modification of the Original Code or ii) the combination of the Original Code with other software or 
devices.

2.2. Contributor Grant.
Subject to third party intellectual property claims, each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, 
royalty-free, non-exclusive license


(a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable by Contributor, 
to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Modifications created by 
such Contributor (or portions thereof) either on an unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as Covered 
Code and/or as part of a Larger Work; and(b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or 
selling of  Modifications made by that Contributor either alone and/or in combination with its Contributor 
Version (or portions of such combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have made, and/or otherwise 
dispose of: 1) Modifications made by that Contributor (or portions thereof); and 2) the combination 
of  Modifications made by that Contributor with its Contributor Version (or portions of such combination).
(c) the licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are effective on the date Contributor first makes 
Commercial Use of the Covered Code.

(d)    Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is granted: 1) for any code that Contributor 
has deleted from the Contributor Version; 2)  separate from the Contributor Version;  3)  for infringements 
caused by: i) third party modifications of Contributor Version or ii)  the combination of Modifications 
made by that Contributor with other software  (except as part of the Contributor Version) or other devices; 
or 4) under Patent Claims infringed by Covered Code in the absence of Modifications made by that Contributor.

3. Distribution Obligations.

3.1. Application of License.
The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute are governed by the terms of this License, 
including without limitation Section 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may be distributed 
only under the terms of this License or a future version of this License released under Section 6.1, 
and You must include a copy of this License with every copy of the Source Code You distribute. You may 
not offer or impose any terms on any Source Code version that alters or restricts the applicable version 
of this License or the recipients' rights hereunder. However, You may include an additional document 
offering the additional rights described in Section 3.5.3.2. Availability of Source Code.
Any Modification which You create or to which You contribute must be made available in Source Code form 
under the terms of this License either on the same media as an Executable version or via an accepted 
Electronic Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whom you made an Executable version available; and if 
made available via Electronic Distribution Mechanism, must remain available for at least twelve (12) 
months after the date it initially became available, or at least six (6) months after a subsequent version 
of that particular Modification has been made available to such recipients. You are responsible for 
ensuring that the Source Code version remains available even if the Electronic Distribution Mechanism 
is maintained by a third party.
3.3. Description of Modifications.
You must cause all Covered Code to which You contribute to contain a file documenting the changes You 
made to create that Covered Code and the date of any change. You must include a prominent statement 
that the Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from Original Code provided by the Initial 
Developer and including the name of the Initial Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any notice 
in an Executable version or related documentation in which You describe the origin or ownership of the 
Covered Code.

3.4. Intellectual Property Matters

(a) Third Party Claims.
If Contributor has knowledge that a license under a third party's intellectual property rights is required 
to exercise the rights granted by such Contributor under Sections 2.1 or 2.2, Contributor must include 
a text file with the Source Code distribution titled "LEGAL'' which describes the claim and the party 
making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient will know whom to contact. If Contributor obtains 
such knowledge after the Modification is made available as described in Section 3.2, Contributor shall 
promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies Contributor makes available thereafter and shall take other 
steps (such as notifying appropriate mailing lists or newsgroups) reasonably calculated to inform those 
who received the Covered Code that new knowledge has been obtained.(b) Contributor APIs.
If Contributor's Modifications include an application programming interface and Contributor has knowledge 
of patent licenses which are reasonably necessary to implement that API, Contributor must also include 
this information in the LEGAL file.
          (c)    Representations.

Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant to Section 3.4(a) above, Contributor believes 
that Contributor's Modifications are Contributor's original creation(s) and/or Contributor has sufficient 
rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.
3.5. Required Notices.
You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source Code.  If it is not possible to 
put such notice in a particular Source Code file due to its structure, then You must include such notice 
in a location (such as a relevant directory) where a user would be likely to look for such a notice. 
 If You created one or more Modification(s) You may add your name as a Contributor to the notice described 
in Exhibit A.  You must also duplicate this License in any documentation for the Source Code where You 
describe recipients' rights or ownership rights relating to Covered Code.  You may choose to offer, 
and to charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligations to one or more recipients 
of Covered Code. However, You may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial Developer 
or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear than any such warranty, support, indemnity or 
liability obligation is offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer 
and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result 
of warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.

3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions.
You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if the requirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have 
been met for that Covered Code, and if You include a notice stating that the Source Code version of 
the Covered Code is available under the terms of this License, including a description of how and where 
You have fulfilled the obligations of Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously included in any 
notice in an Executable version, related documentation or collateral in which You describe recipients' 
rights relating to the Covered Code. You may distribute the Executable version of Covered Code or ownership 
rights under a license of Your choice, which may contain terms different from this License, provided 
that You are in compliance with the terms of this License and that the license for the Executable version 
does not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's rights in the Source Code version from the rights 
set forth in this License. If You distribute the Executable version under a different license You must 
make it absolutely clear that any terms which differ from this License are offered by You alone, not 
by the Initial Developer or any Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and 
every Contributor for any liability incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result 
of any such terms You offer.

3.7. Larger Works.
You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with other code not governed by the terms of 
this License and distribute the Larger Work as a single product. In such a case, You must make sure 
the requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code.

4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.

If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or 
all of the Covered Code due to statute, judicial order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply with 
the terms of this License to the maximum extent possible; and (b) describe the limitations and the code 
they affect. Such description must be included in the LEGAL file described in Section 3.4 and must be 
included with all distributions of the Source Code. Except to the extent prohibited by statute or regulation, 
such description must be sufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to understand 
it.
5. Application of this License.

This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer has attached the notice in Exhibit A and 
to related Covered Code.
6. Versions of the License.

6.1. New Versions.
Netscape Communications Corporation (''Netscape'') may publish revised and/or new versions of the License 
from time to time. Each version will be given a distinguishing version number.6.2. Effect of New Versions.
Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version of the License, You may always continue 
to use it under the terms of that version. You may also choose to use such Covered Code under the terms 
of any subsequent version of the License published by Netscape. No one other than Netscape has the right 
to modify the terms applicable to Covered Code created under this License.
6.3. Derivative Works.
If You create or use a modified version of this License (which you may only do in order to apply it 
to code which is not already Covered Code governed by this License), You must (a) rename Your license 
so that the phrases ''Mozilla'', ''MOZILLAPL'', ''MOZPL'', ''Netscape'', "MPL", ''NPL'' or any confusingly 
similar phrase do not appear in your license (except to note that your license differs from this License) 
and (b) otherwise make it clear that Your version of the license contains terms which differ from the 
Mozilla Public License and Netscape Public License. (Filling in the name of the Initial Developer, Original 
Code or Contributor in the notice described in Exhibit A shall not of themselves be deemed to be modifications 
of this License.)

7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.

COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS'' BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER 
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, 
MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND 
PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, 
YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, 
REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO 
USE OF ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.
8. TERMINATION.

8.1.  This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically if You fail to comply 
with terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses 
to the Covered Code which are properly granted shall survive any termination of this License. Provisions 
which, by their nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this License shall survive.8.2. 
 If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent infringement claim (excluding declatory judgment actions) 
against Initial Developer or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor against whom You file 
such action is referred to as "Participant")  alleging that:(a)  such Participant's Contributor Version 
directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted by such Participant to 
You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate 
prospectively, unless if within 60 days after receipt of notice You either: (i)  agree in writing to 
pay Participant a mutually agreeable reasonable royalty for Your past and future use of Modifications 
made by such Participant, or (ii) withdraw Your litigation claim with respect to the Contributor Version 
against such Participant.  If within 60 days of notice, a reasonable royalty and payment arrangement 
are not mutually agreed upon in writing by the parties or the litigation claim is not withdrawn, the 
rights granted by Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically terminate at the expiration 
of the 60 day notice period specified above.(b)  any software, hardware, or device, other than such 
Participant's Contributor Version, directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then any rights granted 
to You by such Participant under Sections 2.1(b) and 2.2(b) are revoked effective as of the date You 
first made, used, sold, distributed, or had made, Modifications made by that Participant.8.3.  If You 
assert a patent infringement claim against Participant alleging that such Participant's Contributor 
Version directly or indirectly infringes any patent where such claim is resolved (such as by license 
or settlement) prior to the initiation of patent infringement litigation, then the reasonable value 
of the licenses granted by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be taken into account in 
determining the amount or value of any payment or license.
8.4.  In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above,  all end user license agreements 
(excluding distributors and resellers) which have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder 
prior to termination shall survive termination.

9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR 
OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE, 
OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, 
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, 
WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN 
IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 
SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO 
THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR 
LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO 
YOU.
10. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.

The Covered Code is a ''commercial item,'' as that term is defined in 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting 
of ''commercial computer software'' and ''commercial computer software documentation,'' as such terms 
are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 
through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only those rights 
set forth herein.
11. MISCELLANEOUS.

This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject matter hereof. If any provision of 
this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary 
to make it enforceable. This License shall be governed by California law provisions (except to the extent 
applicable law, if any, provides otherwise), excluding its conflict-of-law provisions. With respect 
to disputes in which at least one party is a citizen of, or an entity chartered or registered to do 
business in the United States of America, any litigation relating to this License shall be subject to 
the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the Northern District of California, with venue lying in Santa 
Clara County, California, with the losing party responsible for costs, including without limitation, 
court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses. The application of the United Nations Convention 
on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any law or regulation which 
provides that the language of a contract shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this 
License.
12. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.

As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is responsible for claims and damages 
arising, directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of rights under this License and You agree to 
work with Initial Developer and Contributors to distribute such responsibility on an equitable basis. 
Nothing herein is intended or shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.
13. MULTIPLE-LICENSED CODE.

Initial Developer may designate portions of the Covered Code as Multiple-Licensed.  Multiple-Licensed 
means that the Initial Developer permits you to utilize portions of the Covered Code under Your choice 
of the MPL or the alternative licenses, if any, specified by the Initial Developer in the file described 
in Exhibit A.
EXHIBIT A -Mozilla Public License.

``The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License Version 1.1 (the "License"); you 
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, 
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing rights and
limitations under the License.
The Original Code is ______________________________________.

The Initial Developer of the Original Code is ________________________. Portions created by
______________________ are Copyright (C) ______ _______________________. All Rights
Reserved.

Contributor(s): ______________________________________.

Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of the _____ license (the  [___] 
License), in which case the provisions of [______] License are applicable  instead of those above.  
If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of the [____] License and 
not to allow others to use your version of this file under the MPL, indicate your decision by deleting 
 the provisions above and replace  them with the notice and other provisions required by the [___] License. 
 If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file under either 
the MPL or the [___] License."

[NOTE: The text of this Exhibit A may differ slightly from the text of the notices in the Source Code 
files of the Original Code. You should use the text of this Exhibit A rather than the text found in 
the Original Code Source Code for Your Modifications.]


END OF MPL-1.1 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MPL-2.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the MPL-2.0 license:

certifi
github.com/hashicorp/errwrap

Mozilla Public License

Version 2.0

1. Definitions

1.1. "Contributor"
means each individual or legal entity that creates, contributes to the creation 
of, or owns Covered Software.

1.2. "Contributor Version"
means the combination of the Contributions of others (if any) used by a Contributor 
and that particular Contributor's Contribution.

1.3. "Contribution"
means Covered Software of a particular Contributor.

1.4. "Covered Software"
means Source Code Form to which the initial Contributor has attached the notice 
in Exhibit A, the Executable Form of such Source Code Form, and Modifications of 
such Source Code Form, in each case including portions thereof.

1.5. "Incompatible With Secondary Licenses"
means

that the initial Contributor has attached the notice described in Exhibit B to the 
Covered Software; or

that the Covered Software was made available under the terms of version 1.1 or earlier 
of the License, but not also under the terms of a Secondary License.

1.6. "Executable Form"
means any form of the work other than Source Code Form.

1.7. "Larger Work"
means a work that combines Covered Software with other material, in a separate file 
or files, that is not Covered Software.

1.8. "License"
means this document.

1.9. "Licensable"
means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent possible, whether at the 
time of the initial grant or subsequently, any and all of the rights conveyed by 
this License.

1.10. "Modifications"
means any of the following:

any file in Source Code Form that results from an addition to, deletion from, or 
modification of the contents of Covered Software; or

any new file in Source Code Form that contains any Covered Software.

1.11. "Patent Claims" of a Contributor
means any patent claim(s), including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus 
claims, in any patent Licensable by such Contributor that would be infringed, but 
for the grant of the License, by the making, using, selling, offering for sale, 
having made, import, or transfer of either its Contributions or its Contributor 
Version.

1.12. "Secondary License"
means either the GNU General Public License, Version 2.0, the GNU Lesser General 
Public License, Version 2.1, the GNU Affero General Public License, Version 3.0, 
or any later versions of those licenses.

1.13. "Source Code Form"
means the form of the work preferred for making modifications.

1.14. "You" (or "Your")
means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights under this License. For 
legal entities, "You" includes any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is 
under common control with You. For purposes of this definition, "control" means 
(a) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such 
entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent 
(50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.

2. License Grants and Conditions
2.1. Grants
Each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license:

under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable by 
such Contributor to use, reproduce, make available, modify, display, perform, distribute, 
and otherwise exploit its Contributions, either on an unmodified basis, with Modifications, 
or as part of a Larger Work; and

under Patent Claims of such Contributor to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have 
made, import, and otherwise transfer either its Contributions or its Contributor 
Version.

2.2. Effective Date
The licenses granted in Section 2.1 with respect to any Contribution become effective 
for each Contribution on the date the Contributor first distributes such Contribution.

2.3. Limitations on Grant Scope
The licenses granted in this Section 2 are the only rights granted under this License. 
No additional rights or licenses will be implied from the distribution or licensing 
of Covered Software under this License. Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no 
patent license is granted by a Contributor:

for any code that a Contributor has removed from Covered Software; or

for infringements caused by: (i) Your and any other third party's modifications 
of Covered Software, or (ii) the combination of its Contributions with other software 
(except as part of its Contributor Version); or

under Patent Claims infringed by Covered Software in the absence of its Contributions.

This License does not grant any rights in the trademarks, service marks, or logos 
of any Contributor (except as may be necessary to comply with the notice requirements 
in Section 3.4).

2.4. Subsequent Licenses
No Contributor makes additional grants as a result of Your choice to distribute 
the Covered Software under a subsequent version of this License (see Section 10.2) 
or under the terms of a Secondary License (if permitted under the terms of Section 
3.3).

2.5. Representation
Each Contributor represents that the Contributor believes its Contributions are 
its original creation(s) or it has sufficient rights to grant the rights to its 
Contributions conveyed by this License.

2.6. Fair Use
This License is not intended to limit any rights You have under applicable copyright 
doctrines of fair use, fair dealing, or other equivalents.

2.7. Conditions
Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, and 3.4 are conditions of the licenses granted in Section 
2.1.

3. Responsibilities
3.1. Distribution of Source Form
All distribution of Covered Software in Source Code Form, including any Modifications 
that You create or to which You contribute, must be under the terms of this License. 
You must inform recipients that the Source Code Form of the Covered Software is 
governed by the terms of this License, and how they can obtain a copy of this License. 
You may not attempt to alter or restrict the recipients' rights in the Source Code 
Form.

3.2. Distribution of Executable Form
If You distribute Covered Software in Executable Form then:

such Covered Software must also be made available in Source Code Form, as described 
in Section 3.1, and You must inform recipients of the Executable Form how they can 
obtain a copy of such Source Code Form by reasonable means in a timely manner, at 
a charge no more than the cost of distribution to the recipient; and

You may distribute such Executable Form under the terms of this License, or sublicense 
it under different terms, provided that the license for the Executable Form does 
not attempt to limit or alter the recipients' rights in the Source Code Form under 
this License.

3.3. Distribution of a Larger Work
You may create and distribute a Larger Work under terms of Your choice, provided 
that You also comply with the requirements of this License for the Covered Software. 
If the Larger Work is a combination of Covered Software with a work governed by 
one or more Secondary Licenses, and the Covered Software is not Incompatible With 
Secondary Licenses, this License permits You to additionally distribute such Covered 
Software under the terms of such Secondary License(s), so that the recipient of 
the Larger Work may, at their option, further distribute the Covered Software under 
the terms of either this License or such Secondary License(s).

3.4. Notices
You may not remove or alter the substance of any license notices (including copyright 
notices, patent notices, disclaimers of warranty, or limitations of liability) contained 
within the Source Code Form of the Covered Software, except that You may alter any 
license notices to the extent required to remedy known factual inaccuracies.

3.5. Application of Additional Terms
You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or 
liability obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Software. However, You 
may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of any Contributor. You must 
make it absolutely clear that any such warranty, support, indemnity, or liability 
obligation is offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify every Contributor 
for any liability incurred by such Contributor as a result of warranty, support, 
indemnity or liability terms You offer. You may include additional disclaimers of 
warranty and limitations of liability specific to any jurisdiction.

4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation
If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with 
respect to some or all of the Covered Software due to statute, judicial order, or 
regulation then You must: (a) comply with the terms of this License to the maximum 
extent possible; and (b) describe the limitations and the code they affect. Such 
description must be placed in a text file included with all distributions of the 
Covered Software under this License. Except to the extent prohibited by statute 
or regulation, such description must be sufficiently detailed for a recipient of 
ordinary skill to be able to understand it.

5. Termination
5.1. The rights granted under this License will terminate automatically if You fail 
to comply with any of its terms. However, if You become compliant, then the rights 
granted under this License from a particular Contributor are reinstated (a) provisionally, 
unless and until such Contributor explicitly and finally terminates Your grants, 
and (b) on an ongoing basis, if such Contributor fails to notify You of the non-compliance 
by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after You have come back into compliance. 
Moreover, Your grants from a particular Contributor are reinstated on an ongoing 
basis if such Contributor notifies You of the non-compliance by some reasonable 
means, this is the first time You have received notice of non-compliance with this 
License from such Contributor, and You become compliant prior to 30 days after Your 
receipt of the notice.

5.2. If You initiate litigation against any entity by asserting a patent infringement 
claim (excluding declaratory judgment actions, counter-claims, and cross-claims) 
alleging that a Contributor Version directly or indirectly infringes any patent, 
then the rights granted to You by any and all Contributors for the Covered Software 
under Section 2.1 of this License shall terminate.

5.3. In the event of termination under Sections 5.1 or 5.2 above, all end user license 
agreements (excluding distributors and resellers) which have been validly granted 
by You or Your distributors under this License prior to termination shall survive 
termination.

6. Disclaimer of Warranty
Covered Software is provided under this License on an "as is" basis, without warranty 
of any kind, either expressed, implied, or statutory, including, without limitation, 
warranties that the Covered Software is free of defects, merchantable, fit for a 
particular purpose or non-infringing. The entire risk as to the quality and performance 
of the Covered Software is with You. Should any Covered Software prove defective 
in any respect, You (not any Contributor) assume the cost of any necessary servicing, 
repair, or correction. This disclaimer of warranty constitutes an essential part 
of this License. No use of any Covered Software is authorized under this License 
except under this disclaimer.

7. Limitation of Liability
Under no circumstances and under no legal theory, whether tort (including negligence), 
contract, or otherwise, shall any Contributor, or anyone who distributes Covered 
Software as permitted above, be liable to You for any direct, indirect, special, 
incidental, or consequential damages of any character including, without limitation, 
damages for lost profits, loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, 
or any and all other commercial damages or losses, even if such party shall have 
been informed of the possibility of such damages. This limitation of liability shall 
not apply to liability for death or personal injury resulting from such party's 
negligence to the extent applicable law prohibits such limitation. Some jurisdictions 
do not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental or consequential damages, 
so this exclusion and limitation may not apply to You.

8. Litigation
Any litigation relating to this License may be brought only in the courts of a jurisdiction 
where the defendant maintains its principal place of business and such litigation 
shall be governed by laws of that jurisdiction, without reference to its conflict-of-law 
provisions. Nothing in this Section shall prevent a party's ability to bring cross-claims 
or counter-claims.

9. Miscellaneous
This License represents the complete agreement concerning the subject matter hereof. 
If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall 
be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. Any law or regulation 
which provides that the language of a contract shall be construed against the drafter 
shall not be used to construe this License against a Contributor.

10. Versions of the License
10.1. New Versions
Mozilla Foundation is the license steward. Except as provided in Section 10.3, no 
one other than the license steward has the right to modify or publish new versions 
of this License. Each version will be given a distinguishing version number.

10.2. Effect of New Versions
You may distribute the Covered Software under the terms of the version of the License 
under which You originally received the Covered Software, or under the terms of 
any subsequent version published by the license steward.

10.3. Modified Versions
If you create software not governed by this License, and you want to create a new 
license for such software, you may create and use a modified version of this License 
if you rename the license and remove any references to the name of the license steward 
(except to note that such modified license differs from this License).

10.4. Distributing Source Code Form that is Incompatible With Secondary Licenses
If You choose to distribute Source Code Form that is Incompatible With Secondary 
Licenses under the terms of this version of the License, the notice described in 
Exhibit B of this License must be attached.

Exhibit A - Source Code Form License Notice
This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public License, v. 
2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this file, You can obtain one 
at https://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.

If it is not possible or desirable to put the notice in a particular file, then 
You may include the notice in a location (such as a LICENSE file in a relevant directory) 
where a recipient would be likely to look for such a notice.

You may add additional accurate notices of copyright ownership.

Exhibit B - "Incompatible With Secondary Licenses" Notice
This Source Code Form is "Incompatible With Secondary Licenses", as defined by the 
Mozilla Public License, v. 2.0.


END OF MPL-2.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PYTHON-2.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Python-2.0 license:

distlib
typing_extensions

Python 2.0 License

Python 2.0 License Information

HISTORY OF THE SOFTWARE
Python was created in the early 1990s by Guido van Rossum at Stichting Mathematisch Centrum (CWI) in 
the Netherlands as a successor of a language called ABC. Guido is Python's principal author, although 
it includes many contributions from others. The last version released from CWI was Python 1.2. In 1995, 
Guido continued his work on Python at the Corporation for National Research Initiatives (CNRI) in Reston, 
Virginia where he released several versions of the software. Python 1.6 was the last of the versions 
released by CNRI. In 2000, Guido and the Python core developement team moved to BeOpen.com to form the 
BeOpen PythonLabs team (www.pythonlabs.com). Python 2.0 is the first release from PythonLabs. Thanks 
to the many outside volunteers who have worked under Guido's direction to make this release possible.

BEOPEN.COM TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR PYTHON 2.0

BeOpen Python Open Source License Agreement Version 1
1. This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between BeOpen.com ("BeOpen"), having an office at 160 Saratoga Avenue, 
Santa Clara, CA 95051, and the Individual or Organization ("Licensee") accessing and otherwise using 
this software in source or binary form and its associated documentation ("the Software").

2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this BeOpen Python License Agreement, BeOpen hereby grants 
Licensee a non-exclusive, royalty-free, world-wide license to reproduce, analyze, test, perform and/or 
display publicly, prepare derivative works, distribute, and otherwise use the Software alone or in any 
derivative version, provided, however, that the BeOpen Python License is retained in the Software, alone 
or in any derivative version prepared by Licensee.

3. BeOpen is making the Software available to Licensee on an "AS IS" basis. BEOPEN MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS 
OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, BEOPEN MAKES NO AND DISCLAIMS 
ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE 
USE OF THE SOFTWARE WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.

4. BEOPEN SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF THE SOFTWARE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LOSS AS A RESULT OF USING, MODIFYING OR DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE, OR ANY 
DERIVATIVE THEREOF, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.

5. This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material breach of its terms and conditions.

6. This License Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in all respects by the law of the State 
of California, excluding conflict of law provisions. Nothing in this License Agreement shall be deemed 
to create any relationship of agency, partnership, or joint venture between BeOpen and Licensee. This 
License Agreement does not grant permission to use BeOpen trademarks or trade names in a trademark sense 
to endorse or promote products or services of Licensee, or any third party. As an exception, the "BeOpen 
Python" logos available at http://www.pythonlabs.com/logos.html may be used according to the permissions 
granted on that web page.

7. By copying, installing or otherwise using the software, Licensee agrees to be bound by the terms 
and conditions of this License Agreement.

CNRI OPEN SOURCE LICENSE AGREEMENT
Python 1.6 is made available subject to the terms and conditions in CNRI's License Agreement. This Agreement 
together with Python 1.6 may be located on the Internet using the following unique, persistent identifier 
(known as a handle): 1895.22/1012. This Agreement may also be obtained from a proxy server on the Internet 
using the following URL: http://hdl.handle.net/1895.22/1012.

CWI PERMISSIONS STATEMENT AND DISCLAIMER
Copyright (c) 1991 - 1995, Stichting Mathematisch Centrum Amsterdam, The Netherlands. All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose 
and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and 
that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that 
the name of Stichting Mathematisch Centrum or CWI not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining 
to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission.

STICHTING MATHEMATISCH CENTRUM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL STICHTING MATHEMATISCH CENTRUM 
BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM 
LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, 
ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.


END OF PYTHON-2.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UPL-1.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the UPL-1.0 license:

org.graalvm.sdk:nativeimage

Copyright (c) [year] [copyright holders]

The Universal Permissive License (UPL), Version 1.0

Subject to the condition set forth below, permission is hereby granted to any person obtaining 
a copy of this software, associated documentation and/or data (collectively the "Software"), 
free of charge and under any and all copyright rights in the Software, and any and all patent 
rights owned or freely licensable by each licensor hereunder covering either (i) the unmodified 
Software as contributed to or provided by such licensor, or (ii) the Larger Works (as defined 
below), to deal in both

(a) the Software, and
(b) any piece of software and/or hardware listed in the lrgrwrks.txt file if one is included with 
the Software (each a "Larger Work" to which the Software is contributed by such licensors),
without restriction, including without limitation the rights to copy, create derivative works of, 
display, perform, and distribute the Software and make, use, sell, offer for sale, import, export, 
have made, and have sold the Software and the Larger Work(s), and to sublicense the foregoing rights 
on either these or other terms.

This license is subject to the following condition:

The above copyright notice and either this complete permission notice or at a minimum a reference to 
the UPL must be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT 
LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN 
NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, 
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE 
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

END OF UPL-1.0 CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

END OF NOTICES AND INFORMATION

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

L/N: L-FJVU-23GPQ2
D/N: L-FJVU-23GPQ2
P/N: L-FJVU-23GPQ2

L/N: L-SZMY-MNQTXH
D/N: L-SZMY-MNQTXH
P/N: L-SZMY-MNQTXH
